Obiano The heat is on. In the next two weeks, the pictures will start getting clearer regarding those who are serious about their intention to occupy the Government House of Anambra State. Already, by their conversations and public engagements, residents of the state can pinpoint those who are leaving no stone unturned in their quest to succeed Governor Willie Maduburochukwu Obiano. As far as most voters could remember, Governor Obiano was an accidental leader, who decided to learn the ropes of governance in office. Prior to his election into the seat in 2013, Obiano had retired from his appointment as a director in Fidelity Bank Plc. Now, in the final days of his second and final term as governor, it has dawned on all that regardless of his achievements, the governor’s political skills is nowhere near average. It is perhaps based on the poor political schematics of the outgoing governor that some of the current aspirants are being weighed on the scale of their adaptability or transition from private sector prowess to political participation. Initially, the general concern among Anambra people was about the kind of governor the state deserves from March 17, 2022, when Obiano will climb down from the pearl tower. In an interview with The Guardian, Chief JohnBosco Onunkwo, said that the next governor must have the ability to create wealth as well as the aptitude to liaise with captains of commerce and industry, which the state has in abundance. Sir Azuka Okwuosa, on his part, said the man or woman that would lead Anambra people from next year must have the capacity to blend governance and politics, stressing that only a balance of the two would give the people proper direction to excel in both entrepreneurship and socio-political arena. Dr. Dozie Nwankwo maintained that experience in business, in addition to sound education, are factors that would put the next governor in a good stead to pilot the affairs of the state in a post-COVID-19 economy. Paul Orajiaka Nwankwo said that as an employer of labour and entrepreneur, he knew what the state needed to excel, adding that politics had become synonymous with corruption because people who have no business with public service were getting into office and using that as a means of earning a living. Dr. George Moghalu believes that integrity and track records should form the basis of evaluating potential leaders, noting that those who find it hard to keep to one political party would invariably find it hard to be honest with political power. Senator Uche Ekwunife believes that it takes the confidence of the people for anybody to be their leader. “It is not easy to be elected into public office on many occasions if one does not have a record of excellent service and being close to the people.” Chris Azubogu, a member of House of Representatives, believes that what Anambra State needs is a servant leader, stressing that experience in public office as well as knowledge of the needs of the people are hallmarks of a good leader. The Managing Director and Chairman of United Nigeria Airlines, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, said that as a political economist and entrepreneur, his mission would be to blend governance with humanism. “Only those who understand Anambra and its challenges should be allowed to pilot the affairs of the state.” Okonkwo contended that crossing over from paid employment to become the chief executive of a state had its pitfalls, as one would invariably continue on the trajectory of service he or she had created over the years. Blue Chip Aspirants
Former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, remains the first technocrat that caused a stir in the history of Anambra State governorship in the current democratic dispensation. Renowned as a majorly commercial and entrepreneurial state, Anambra has always been suspicious of career politicians, particularly after the days of Dr. Chinwoke Mbadinuju, a lawyer. It is perhaps against that background that technocrats have always tried to change the narrative as they battle business leaders for the coveted post of state governor. As the state gets ready to elect Governor Obiano’s successor, two ‘blue chip’ aspirants, Paul Orajiaka and Valentine Ozigbo, have been making waves in the field as they canvass for delegates’ votes to represent their political parties. While Orajiaka makes the social media stand still on his behalf, through messaging, Ozigbo’s rising political presence defies his freshness on the turf. Ever since he joined the race, Ozigbo has not looked back in his determination to be on the ballot as the candidate of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He has been engaging various levels of stakeholders, particularly the delegates and Anambra people in general. For instance, in March Ozigbo interacted with leaders of thought from the state residing in Lagos, Abuja and Enugu, and launched his campaign theme of Ka Anambra Chawapu. He also deepened the conversation last month, when he engaged key PDP stakeholders in the three senatorial districts of the state in town hall meetings. The governorship hopeful last week held what was called the ‘Mother of all town hall meetings’ at the Emmaus House, Awka. More than 2, 000 PDP delegates from the 326 wards of the state attended the meeting. At the three-day event, the respected business mogul cum philanthropist commended PDP youth leaders in the state “for their efforts in seeing that the party’s youth wing was not only running smoothly, but also properly coordinated.” Ozigbo, who is also the founder of Valentine Chineto Ozigbo (VCO) Foundation, described the youth as the “hope and future of our world”, even as he reiterated his commitment to empowering them. Reminding the future leaders of their essential role during elections, Ozigbo declared: “I consider today’s session as the most important because I’m sitting right here with the direct beneficiaries of every election. Valentine Ozigbo “The success and longevity of every society depend hugely on how they manage their younger generations. It is, therefore, one of my most cherished moments, sitting with the youth and dialoguing our future together. My development initiatives are centred around the youths because I understand their fundamental role in the transition of a successful society. “I understand that the best way we can get it right as a people is by reshaping our children’s future by giving them solid upbringing and empowerments today. I have always used my position to attract opportunities that will benefit the youths.” The PDP governorship aspirant, who is also the immediate past President and Group CEO of Transcorp Plc, recounted his partnerships with the youths through talent hunt, business plan contests, skill acquisition programmes, and other empowerment initiatives. He, however, lamented what he described as enormous untapped youth potential in the state, blaming the situation on “failed leadership”. Ozigbo recalled how, as the chairman of Feet ‘N’ Tricks International, he organised the Nigerian and African Freestyle Football Championships, where thousands of sports-loving youths came together to show their talents.  It would be recalled that Blessed Ezeakabudu from Anambra State emerged as the first Nigerian champion. “My youth development outreach also saw the birth of Mbem, Ogene and Oja competitions, cultural fiestas that bring the youth together. Through this initiative, we were able to bring to the limelight unique young talents who did not have platform to showcase what they can do before now. “Since launching the VCO Foundation in 2014, I have also organised the Akalabo talent hunt and business plan competition to empower the youths of my home communities. The exceptional ones get seed funding and grants from our foundation and do so well in their chosen endeavours. “I was willing to go this far in my youth development initiatives because I strongly believe that the continuity of our success as a people depends on what we do for our youths today,” he narrated. Orajiaka, in one of his social media engagements, tasked APC delegates on what story they could tell the voters, noting that the outgoing All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) administration has had its time. He stated that to make a mark and claim victory, the APC standard bearer must have admiration and acceptance of the people just as he referenced his Harvard University training and success in entrepreneurship. Expounding his campaign theme of ‘For The Greater Good of Anambra’, Orajiaka declared that the “forthcoming elections would be won or lost based on who is in the race, hence for APC to really stand a chance, we must nominate the best for the polls.” Who is the best for the governorship of Anambra State? The answer will begin to manifest on June 25.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .