The immediate past National Secretary of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Dr Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi, has resigned from the party. Shinkafi, a former Governorship candidate of APGA and the secretary of the party’s board of trustees announced his resignation as a member of the party and secretary of the BOT in a letter to the national secretary of the party. He said his decision to resign was made after due consultation with relevant stakeholders in the state. Barring any last-minute change, Shinkafi may join the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “This is to formally tender my resignation as a member of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the Secretary of the Board of Trustee of the party with effect from the date of the letter,” Shinkafi said in the letter. “May the Almighty God bless you all and good people of Nigeria. I wish the party well and also  Prof. Chukwuma Soludo the candidate of our party for the forthcoming 6th November 2021 Anambra State Governorship elections, I wish him success in the polls.” He expressed gratitude to the Governor of Anambra State who is the national leader of APGA and the chairman of the Board of Trustees of the party, the party leadership, Senator Victor Umeh, the former national chairman of the party for all their support while he was in the party. He added: “Let me extend my gratitude to His Excellency Chief Dr. Willie Obiano the Executive Governor of Anambra State, National Leader/Chairman Board of Trustees of the party, Chief Senator Victor C. Umeh (Jagaban Shinkafi) former National Chairman APGA, Chief Victor Ikechukwu Oye National Chairman of APGA, our distinguished colleagues, members of the National Working Committee (NWC), Members of the National Executive Council (NEC), Members of the Board of Trustees (BOT) and members our great party the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) for the opportunity given to me to serve as State Chairman in Zamfara State, National Secretary and Secretary Board of Trustee (BOT) respectively in the last 19 years.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .