 ICT Officer, Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), Obilana Olayiwola(left); Chairman, South West Zone, Association of Bureaux De Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON), Taiwo Ebenezer; President, Dr. Aminu Gwadabe; Akubo Emmanuel of  Compliance Department, NFIU; National  Treasurer, ABCON, Gbadamosi Mohammed and Executive Secretary, Cletus Uduma at the commencement of the ABCON nationwide training on Bureaux De Change Operations in Lagos.							  PHOTO:SUNDAY AKINLOLU  Noting that total investment in each BDC is about N35 million, he called for increased supervision by directors, to detect and forestall any activity that could lead to loss of such investment. Listing the expected roles of BDC directors, Chairman South West Zone, ABCON, Taiwo Ebenezer, said that directors should be involved in the day-to-day activities of their BDCs and relate regularly with their staff. Among other things, he added that BDC directors must know the sources of funds paid into their corporate accounts, while also ensuring weekly operational reports from their staff. On his part, ABCON National Treasurer, Gbadamosi Mohammed, said it is the duty of directors to educate their members on the ethics of the business as indicated in the CBN guidelines. He added that the ongoing nationwide ABCON training was informed by the need to ensure that all BDC staff are adequately educated, and the directors should ensure application of lessons from the training by their staff in the day-to-day running of their BDCs.
 
Also speaking, ABCON Vice President, Azubuike Igbokwe, listed unauthorised transactions for BDcs to include, funds transfer, donations to political parties, funding of importation and funding of terrorism activities.
   
Noting that the penalty for unauthorised transactions include N5 million fine, exclusion from forex  bidding or revocation of operating licence, he charged the directors to always  validate the BVN of their customers so as to ensure their identities and activities as a way of ensuring their BDCs are not unconsciously or indirectly used for  any of the unauthorised transactions. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .