 Kragha  African countries will need about $15.7 billion to upgrade existing 36 refineries on the continent to produce petroleum products that will conform with a planned level of sulphur content.  
   
African Refiners and Distributors Association (ARDA) disclosed that the $15.7 billion estimate is about 50 per cent and final per refinery upgrades may need to be finalised when respective engineering, procurement and constructions are engaged.
   
The African Union and ARDA had planned an initiative called AFRI-6, which aimed at reducing Sulphur content in fuels to 10 parts per million (ppm) in the coming years.  “Targeted financing needed for projects to upgrade refineries and infrastructure to produce and transport cleaner fuels,” he also commented.
   
An investment professional at the African Finance Corporation, Ufuoma Adasen, noted that while access to long-term financing at competitive rates remained a challenge, phased project implementation could represent a way forward.
 
Adasen said since some refineries do not operate on full cost-reflective basis, a development, which contributes to financial losses, strained cash flows, and weak balance sheets, there was a need for stakeholders to adopt a fully commercially viable framework.
   
In the face of shrinking investment into the oil and gas sector, Adasen expressed the need to prioritize projects that would improve production of cleaner fuels and increase advocacy by key stakeholders.
    
Business Development Expert at Vitol Group, Richard Egan said the continent’s sub-economic utilisation and relatively low complexity calls for significant investment in refining, adding however that the world has reached a tipping point whereby financing ESG or green projects may be more than that for fossil fuels going forward.  “Fastest path towards success is with sponsor groups featuring a strong balance sheet and with well-structured offtake agreements (offshore hard currency contracts preferred),” Doyle said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .