 Internet of Things  Specifically, establishing systems for comprehensive network communication, cloud-based decision making, information tracking, and online management based on IoT related technologies will improve the ambient air quality more efficiently. These were part of the highlights of a webinar organised by IoT Africa Networks Limited with the theme: “Quality Air &COVID-19: How to improve productivity and safety using IoT.” The IoT generally refers to the goals achieved by following established network communication protocols, connecting items through various networks and using radio frequency identification (RFID) technology, various sensors, location recognition systems, and information processing mechanisms. At the webinar, it was observed that Lagos, being one of the world’s fastest-growing megacities, serving as Nigeria’s economic hub, and that this rapid expansion has resulted in pollution, unhealthy air, and a high prevalence of illness and untimely deaths. 
   
Accordingly, a recent World Bank study in 2018 noted that air pollution, disease, and early deaths in Lagos caused by ambient air pollution cost about $2.1 billion, accounting for nearly 2.1 per cent of the state’s GDP.
  
Indeed, the webinar noted that the COVID-19 pandemic has remained a global concern, adding that researchers discovered that there is a relationship between the quality of air and the transmission of the virus. It was found that exposure to hazardous air increases the death rate among COVID-19 patients by nine per cent. The pollutants cause respiratory stress, thereby increasing vulnerability to the virus and death rate.  Ayoola outlined the importance of air quality as it relates to daily productivity. In her presentation, she highlighted how remote work and other corporate workplace perks such as bonus packages and fantastic reward schemes could be undermined by the unavailability of quality air.
   
Ayoola said: “it could all be less effective in providing a motivated and driven workforce, if the air, the basic natural resource we need to live, is not good enough to sustain the body’s engine”. She noted that the air people breathe impact productivity. She stated that ‘what we are avoiding is an environment where our air is working against us.”   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .