 Secretary to the Rivers State Government, Dr. Tammy Danagogo  Danagogo, who gave the charge in Port Harcourt, yesterday, noted that the construction of the Trans-Kalabari link road underscored Wike’s love for the people and goodwill towards their economic prosperity. “As a landmark project, the governor is aware of the diverse economic windows the development of the Trans-Kalabari link road will create for the people and enhance the rural-urban interconnection being promoted by the Wike administration. “The benefits of sand filling of the Abonnema-Obonoma and the Trans- Kalabari road are enormous. The proximity to Port Harcourt is unique, as more economic windows can be explored in housing, agriculture, transportation and other sectors,” he said. He added that the segmentation policy of the construction was good for the speedy completion and delivery of the project, adding that the projects were abandoned by the previous administration irrespective of its significance. “The previous government abandoned the project for inexplicable reasons. Now, irrespective of the present economic challenges in the country, the governor has embarked on the construction of phase one of the Trans-Kalabari link road,” he added. He, therefore, charged the communities to be receptive of the development and enjoy more benefits, stressing that the policies of the Wike administration were beneficial to the development of the state and would establish a better foundation for its transformation. Danagogo noted that the commissioning of projects, commencement of the Phase 1 of the Trans-Kalabari link road and the Abonnema-Obonoma Sand Filling-Land Reclamation were demonstration of the governor’s doggedness to ensure that all sectors and segments of the state and the councils were positively affected by the new economic windows that such development would deliver. He commended Wike for fulfilling his promises to the Rivers people.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .