• Oyo NUJ condemns killing, urges CP, govt to fish out killers
• Investigations have commenced, say police As residents of Oyo State are trying to get over the killing of Rahmon Azeez, a phone seller in Iwo Road, and that of six persons at Inalende area, all in Ibadan, a former presenter and On-Air Personality (OAP) with Naija FM, Titus Badejo, popularly known as Eja Nla, has been killed by gunmen. The Guardian learnt that Badejo was shot dead on Saturday night outside 407 Club at Oluyole Estate, Ibadan, Oyo State. A source said that Eja Nla, who had been at the club from about 9.00 p.m., was leaving with some friends when two masked men riding on a motorcycle suddenly stopped and asked all of them to lie down. It was alleged that the gunmen aimed at Eja Nla, shot at him repeatedly and ensured that he was dead before leaving without taking anything from him or his friends. His murder came barely a week after he celebrated his 40th birthday. The media personality, who hailed from Ogbomoso, was said to have gathered other natives in the town on his birthday, holding an elaborate programme by Eja Nla Entertainment, tagged ‘Made in Ogbomoso,’ to celebrate the birthday event. Badejo was also said to be an actor in Yoruba movies, as he had posted on being at a location with popular actors, such as Femi Adebayo and others. Policemen from Oluyole Division were said to have taken the body to the mortuary at Adeoyo Hospital, Ring Road. The Oyo State Police Command yesterday confirmed the development. In a statement by the state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Adewale Osifeso, the police said investigations had commenced to fish out the killers.
MEANWHILE, the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Oyo State Council, has mourned the demise of Badejo. In a statement by its state Chairman, Ademola Babalola, the NUJ described the killing as one too many. It, therefore, tasked the Oyo State government and the state’s police commissioner to probe the killing. The NUJ said: “We mourn the untimely passing and gruesome murder of a journalist whose sad killing took place on Saturday at a club in Oluyole area of Ibadan, Oyo State capital. A very distinguished OAP, DJ and Sports presenter, Badejo’s killing is one death too many for us in Oyo NUJ to comprehend. The spate of senseless killings and avoidable deaths is worrisome and calls for concern of all discerning members of the public. “It appears those who have scores to settle with one another are using the rising insecurity in the state to perpetrate killings of monumental dimension. Under the cover of darkness, the assailants snuffed life out of a bubbling young man and cut short his precious life! What a cruel life?”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .