 Mele Kyari  As the Federal Government seeks to commence the rehabilitation of Kaduna and Warri refineries latest next month, indications emerged yesterday that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) might end up paying at least $4 billion for the 20 per cent stake it seeks in the Dangote refinery, which has the capacity to produce 650,000 bpd per day.  According to Kyari, the African billionaire and business magnate, Aliko Dangote, does not want to sell shares in his refinery and petrochemical project under construction in the Lekki Free Zone of Lagos, “but it is important that the NNPC, as the national oil company, guarantee energy security for the country by having a say in the board of the refinery.” Last year, a total of N81.41 billion was expended on the four refineries in Kaduna, Port Harcourt and Warri between January and August, even though the facilities never refined a drop of crude oil all through the period, while the public continues to bear the brunt of government’s inability to make its refineries functional. Petrol sells for between N163 and N165 per litre in the country, which is short of its landing cost estimated at N232 per litre.  Kyari, who said the worth of the Dangote refinery is being valued at about $19 billion, said government decision was necessary to guarantee energy security, adding that the country plans to become a net exporter of petroleum products and change the dynamics in the global petroleum product supply market.
 
“We have a valuation of the refinery, about $19 billion, I don’t have the exact figure but I think about $19 billion. There is an ongoing engagement. There is a governance issue around this that we need to conclude. That governance issues include seeking the authority of the Federal Executive Council to close the deal.”
 
According to him, the government had started the engagement in December last year and has taken time before reaching the decision, adding further that the valuation process was bankable given the interest of international lenders and other global regulators in the sector.  She noted that there was a need for NNPC to vividly articulate to Nigerians the investment, projected gains, terms of the contract and other critical details that justify the decision. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .