 Boston Celtics coach Ime Udoka  Although the terms of the deal were not disclosed per team policy, Udoka, a seven-year NBA veteran, brings to his job nine years of assistant coaching experience.
 
“I would like to welcome Ime, Nia, Kez, and Massai to the Boston Celtics.  Among the many outstanding qualities that Ime brings to the table are his character, humility, and competitiveness.  He has a relentless work ethic and a vast array of experiences as a player and coach,” said Celtics President of Basketball Operations Brad Stevens.	 “He’s a leader that is warm and demanding, and we are so excited that he has chosen to join us in pursuit of Banner 18.”  Udoka played 12 years of professional basketball, including seven seasons in the NBA from 2003-04 to 2010-11. He averaged 5.2 points on 41.7 per cent shooting (35.6 per cent three-PT), 2.9 rebounds, 1.0 assist and 18.1 minutes in 316 career games with San Antonio, Portland, Sacramento, New York, and the Los Angeles Lakers. Udoka also represented Nigeria in international competition throughout his playing career, earning bronze medals in 2005 and 2011 at the African Championships. 
 
“Ime stands out as a person of integrity, accomplishment, energy, and insight,” said Celtics Co-Owner and Governor Wyc Grousbeck. “He has worked with some of the best and is ready to take the next step forward. I look forward to having him as our head coach.”
 
“Ime’s passion for basketball and coaching is extraordinary,” said Celtics Co-Owner and Alternate Governor Steve Pagliuca. “He is respected by players and coaches throughout the league for his empathy, humility, and deep knowledge of the game. We are thrilled that he will be coming to Boston to lead our team.”
 
A native of Portland, OR, Udoka, 43, began his collegiate career at Utah State University Eastern (1995-97) before transferring to the University of San Francisco (1997-98) and finishing up at Portland State (1999-00).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .