Anthony Joshua Opens Up To Jourdan Dunn About Mental Fitness And More In this episode of British Vogue’s “In Conversation” series, two-time world heavyweight champion and former cover star, Anthony Joshua sat down for a friendly conversation with supermodel Jourdan Dunn in the midst of preparing for his now cancelled fight with Tyson Fury. Boxer Anthony Joshua says of the much-anticipated fight with Tyson Fury: I’ve signed my side of the deal. We’ve sent him [Tyson] a good offer, one I’m sure he won’t refuse. He wants the fight, no doubt about it. So do I and more than me and him, the whole public wants it. I put my crystal ball out there and I say it’s going to happen this year 100%. Asked by Jourdan if Tyson would get his four belts if he won the fight, Anthony laughs: “Unfortunately he’s not going to win…” When asked if they have met or are friends away from the ring, Anthony says: Yeah I have [met Tyson]. I don’t even know what we are. I’ve seen him face-to-face and people on video and social media are different than face-to-face. Speaking of Tyson opening up about his mental health struggles on the show’s last series, Anthony adds: It’s tough, for someone to go through that mental pressure and pull themselves back up. A lot of people are suffering in this world. We put on a brave face, don’t we? He’s put it out to the world ‘this is what I’ve gone through, if I’m a boxer, heavyweight champion of the world hard man if I can go through it…’ it gives people hope. I respect it. 100% you have to respect it. Also, further discussing what keeps him going, he says: “It’s fine to fail, but don’t get disheartened. Build, go again. That marathon mindset is what’s got me through my boxing days and that’s what I’m still using as motivation now.” Anthony Joshua opens up about being, a role model, mental fitness, male vulnerability, what he hopes to teach his son, and the motivational speeches he tells Dunn he listens to on YouTube before getting in the ring. Watch the video below: 