Disney Star Kyle Massey Charged With Sending Explicit Images To An Underaged Girl Kyle Massey, a former Disney Channel star, is facing a felony charge of communication with a minor for immoral purposes, and perhaps additional charges after skipping his arraignment. The 29-year-old actor – known for playing Cory Baxter on That’s So Raven and Cory in the House, has been charged with ‘one count of communication with a minor for immoral purposes.’ Per legal documents obtained by TMZ, Massey has been accused of sending sexually explicit content to the girl electronically, around December 2018 and January 2019. In March, Massey was sued for $1.5 million for allegedly sending ‘numerous sexually explicit text messages, images, and videos’ via Snapchat, but the actor claimed he was being extorted. The report adds that this most recent charge is connected to the previous civil suit. Back in March, Massey vehemently denied the first round of allegations, calling the $1.5 million lawsuit levied against him on Friday, a case of extortion. Massey said in a statement through his attorney, Lee Hutton, at the time: No child should ever be exposed to sexually explicit materials and I unequivocally and categorically deny any alleged misconduct. According to legal documents, the unidentified girl and her family met Massey when she was four years old and stayed in touch with the actor over the years as she began her own entertainment career. She reached out to him in late 2018 with hopes of auditioning for a role on the recently-rebooted Raven’s Home. The lawsuit also contends Massey then suggested that she fly out and stay with him and his girlfriend in Los Angeles while she looked to get a talent agent. Just days later, the child contended Massey sent her a number of sexually explicit text messages, images, and videos. Supporting his claims of extortion, Massey maintained the accuser’s legal team demanded $1.5 million earlier this year and threatened to go public to destroy his career if he didn’t comply. The actor said he shot down the demand. He has asked fans, and the public in general, ‘not to jump not to jump to conclusions based on the allegations alone but reserve judgment until the whole story comes to light, proving these allegations baseless.’ according to a report by Daily Mail. Massey played Cory Baxter on the Disney Channel sitcom, That’s So Raven, from 2003 until 2007, and the spinoff show, Cory In The House, as the title character from 2007 until 2008.