Photo: Lagos Sports Commission The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), says all 25 home-based players in Super Eagles camp currently training ahead of the international friendly against Mexico on July 3 will not face visa hitches in travelling to California for the game. There are reports that some of the domestic players invited for the tune up game, who have virgin passports might not be given American visas, but the NFF said all logistics and protocols required for the international friendly had been handled. Speaking with The Guardian yesterday, NFF Director of Media, Ademola Olajire, stated that the home-based players would not face any challenges ahead of the international friendly. “Visa matters are already handled. The Super Eagles will leave on June 30,” he said. However, NFF Technical Director, former Super Eagles coach Agustine Equaveon has stated that coach Gernot Rohr don’t have fate in the home-based Super Eagles after the NFF directed him to take charge of the team for the international friendly against Mexico. Speaking on a radio programme, Eguaveon said: “I was asked by the NFF to take charge of the Super Eagles for the Mexico friendly. There is nothing I can do than to respect my employers. Rohr is around but does not give attention to the team. I don’t think he has fate on the home-based players. I don’t know the contract terms he has with the NFF. That is why I cannot say much on why he is not working with the team. “The only time he said something to the home-based team was when he asked me why the players are not also training in a gym and I told him the hotel the players are lodged does not have a gym. When I contacted his assistant, Joseph Yobo, he said family issues did not allow him to join the team yet. We will iron out that aspect when Yobo joins the team. At this moment, I am working with the players and getting advice from other NPFL coaches on some players invited. Rohr is on the delegation to U.S. and I don’t understand why he is not with the players. Eguavoen continued: “I have 35 players in camp and some of them have passport issues. I have to replace such players. Meanwhile, former Super Eagles coach, Christian Chukwu says Gernot Rohr’s late invitation of the home-based Eagles for Mexico friendly would not put the team in the right frame of mind to excel in the game. “How can Rohr invite the domestic players within a short time and expect them to beat Mexico. It is not possible. Rohr should have been in Nigeria watching the NPFL League and pick the best players, prepare them two or three weeks before the friendly match.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .