President Paul Biya of Cameroun (left) decorating Alhaji Aliko Dangote for his infrastructure development in Africa at the Unity Palace, Yaoundé. Story on page 3 President/Chief Executive of Dangote Industries Limited, Aliko Dangote, has received the highest civilian honour in Cameroun – the Commander of the National Order of Valour – from the President of the Republic, Paul Biya. According to President Biya, the honour was conferred on Dangote in recognition of his efforts in infrastructure development of Cameroun and Africa through his cement plants. The President, at a conferment ceremony held at the Unity Palace, Yaoundé, expressed pride at Dangote’s various efforts to promote industrialisation across Africa through the building of cement plants in several African countries. He noted that the plants have provided thousands of direct and indirect employment at their various locations, to boost the economies of their host countries, just like in Cameroun. The President urged the leading African investor to consider more investments in the manufacturing sector in Cameroun, explaining that there are numerous business opportunities in the country. He maintained that his government is focused on promoting a business-friendly environment to make the country more attractive and an investors’ destination. In his response, Dangote thanked President Biya and the people of Cameroun for the great honour conferred to him. He disclosed that there are plans to diversify the group’s investments in Cameroun, starting with energy. He said: “We have plans to expand our investment to other sectors beginning with oil and gas while our capacity in cement will be expanded.” Dangote commended the Camerounian government for providing an enabling environment, which aided the successful completion of the Dangote Cement plant. He also expressed appreciation for the support provided by the President and cabinet in solving the challenges encountered in the construction of the plant. “At the inception of our construction activities at the plant, we encountered several challenges, but the government stepped in and ensured that we overcame these initial problems. Also, the incentives by the government to investors are encouraging. We feel very much at home here in Cameroun because of the business-friendly environment. If demand for cement increases, we will increase the capacity of the plant and make the country self-sufficient in cement production.” Dangote Cement Cameroun SA, part of Dangote Cement Group was commissioned six years ago, and has boosted domestic cement production, reduced partly the domestic deficit, and helped in holding down the price of a bag of cement in the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .