 Executive Producer, Love Island Nigeria, Odiri Iwuji; Executive Producer, Love Island Nigeria and Executive Chairman Digital Play Africa, Toyin Subair, and Neil Oyenekan, Series Producer, Love Island Nigeria, at the press conference to announce the debut of the dating reality show, in Lagos on Thursday.  The official announcement was made in Lagos at an elaborate event where representatives of Digital Play Africa, licencee of ITV Studios, a British multinational television production and distribution company were joined by members of the press, brand sponsors and entertainment enthusiasts as well as representatives of the UK Department of International Trade. According to Digital Play Africa, a media and entertainment investment and management group, with interest in almost all aspects of media value chain, the award-winning, record-breaking format will begin its Nigerian journey in the last quarter of the year. The show will be broadcast to millions of entertainment fans via FreeTV’s free to air and premium channels including ONTV and MTV Base, among others. It will also be available for digital streaming via 9Vision mobile app. The reality dating format, which originated in the United Kingdom in 2005, has since grown to become one of the most watched content on TV and online platforms with a strong presence in 21 countries including the United Kingdom, United States of America, Australia, and Spain among others. Speaking on what inspired the decision to bring the show to Nigeria, Toyin Subair, Executive Chairman, Digital Play Africa and Executive Producer of Love Island Nigeria, explained that the Nigerian format perfectly sums the expectations Nigerians have for entertainment as the programme offers a rich mix of fun while touching on friendship, love, romance and enduring relationships between islanders. “Love Island Nigeria, the first format to have an all-black cast, will give 20 singles an opportunity to come together and share the true essence of love, romance, friendship and relationship with all the twists and intrigues in seven exhilarating weeks in the Love Island villa,” Subair said. Reiterating Subair’s comment, Head of Global Content and Productions at ITV Studios Global Entertainment, Huub Van Ballegooy, described the show’s debut in Nigeria at a time viewers were longing for something different as timely. His words: “As we have already seen in different parts of the world, Love Island works equally well across linear, digital and catch-up platforms. With love being a universal language and the growing Nigerian market, we are very excited to roll out Love Island soon in Nigeria as well.” Speaking on plans for the show’s production and what viewers should expect, Odiri Iwuji of Chudor House Production and executive producer of the show, said, “Love Island is perfect for the Nigerian youth audience as it simply ticks all the boxes.” On his part, the series producer, Neil Oyenekan, said, “dating is a critical part of millennials’ maturation in today’s Africa, and Love Island Nigeria offers a verified format through which its key stages get tested – we expect great entertainment!” Chudor House Productions is a UK based production company with interests in film and TV production. Chudor is committed to outstanding storytelling. With strong connections in Nigeria, through its newly launched Nigerian entity Chudor MMC, the company is committed to representing, nurturing and protecting talented Nigerian writers and IP and bringing them to the world stage. Love Island is owned by ITV Studios and Motion Content Group Ltd and is distributed internationally by the firm. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .