 Denmark’s forward Andreas Cornelius (front) reacts to their defeat after the UEFA EURO 2020 Group B football match between Denmark and Belgium at the Parken Stadium in Copenhagen on June 17, 2021. (Photo by Jonathan NACKSTRAND / POOL / AFP)  The Danes could snatch a top-two finish in Group B if they beat Russia and already-qualified Belgium win against Finland. Earlier in the day, Austria will go through Group C with victory in Bucharest over Ukraine, which would progress if they avoid defeat. Denmark’s opening 1-0 loss to Finland was overshadowed by Christian Eriksen’s mid-match collapse and they then fell to defeat by Belgium in an emotional game that saw both fans and players show their support for the midfielder. But a crowd of up to 25,000 will cheer them on at the Parken Stadium with a place in the last 16 still up for grabs. “We’re prepared to run out at the Parken and have a magical night… it’s like our Euro is starting right now,” Denmark coach Kasper Hjulmand said on Sunday. “We’re not done. We had a difficult start and we’re going to start over now. We’re ready to get through the group and play more games.” A win by two goals or more would be enough if Finland lose, as would any one-goal success other than 1-0. “It would mean a lot… after everything that we’ve been through I think we deserve it,” said captain Simon Kjaer. Inter Milan player Eriksen has since left the hospital after a successful operation to have a heart defibrillator implanted. Russia will be out to spoil the home team’s day, though, knowing just a point would be enough to finish second if Belgium win. Roberto Martinez’s Belgians, the world’s top-ranked team, are not yet guaranteed a top-two finish, but a draw would see them through as group winners. – Ukraine eye history –
Andriy Shevchenko’s Ukraine are just a point away from making the knockout stage for the first time after successive group exits in 2012 and 2016. “I trust my team and I’m very pleased with their attitude,” said Shevchenko. “It’s a very serious game and we are getting prepared accordingly.” Austria had never won a European Championship match until they beat North Macedonia in their opener, but even a point would likely be enough to secure a last-16 spot as one of the four best third-placed teams. Coach Franco Foda has confirmed that Marko Arnautovic will make his first start of the tournament after serving a one-match ban for insulting Macedonian players while celebrating scoring as a substitute. The winners will face Group A winners Italy at Wembley in the next round. The other game in Group C is a dead rubber between the Netherlands, who are assured of the top spot, and already eliminated North Macedonia. Veteran captain Goran Pandev, who scored the Macedonians’ first major tournament goal against Austria, will make his final appearance before retiring from international football. – Wales through despite defeat –
On Sunday, Wales celebrated reaching the last 16 despite losing 1-0 to Italy in Rome, as Switzerland was left to wait before finding out if they will join them. Gareth Bale and his Welsh teammates were outclassed by an impressive Italy side at the Stadio Olimpico, with Matteo Pessina scoring the only goal. Wales had Ethan Ampadu sent off and couldn’t get an equaliser but the result was enough for them to qualify in second place in Group A on goal difference ahead of the Swiss, who defeated Turkey 3-1 in Baku. “We wanted to get a result but the main thing is we finished second,” Bale told British broadcaster ITV. Semi-finalists at Euro 2016, Wales will play a last-16 tie in Amsterdam next Saturday against the runners-up from Group B. Xherdan Shaqiri scored two excellent goals after Haris Seferovic gave Switzerland the lead, with Irfan Can Kahveci at least giving a disappointing Turkey their only goal of the event. Meanwhile, UEFA said Sunday it was opening an investigation into an allegedly homophobic banner and monkey noises at Hungary’s first two Euro 2020 matches in Budapest. European football’s governing body said it was investigating “potential discriminatory incidents” in the Puskas Arena during Hungary’s 3-0 defeat by Portugal on Tuesday and the 1-1 draw with France on Saturday. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .