 [FILES] ICPC Chairman, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye. Photo; TWITTER/ICPCPE  The ICPC Chairman, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, said the document became necessary following the need to resuscitate lost values of honesty and integrity in the country, adding that it was in response to many damaging effects of corruption on the country. Owasanoye, who was represented by the member, representing South-East region in the ICPC Board, Mr. Obiora Igwedibia, said that the launch of the NEIP was in collaboration with the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and the National Orientation Agency (NOA), stressing that it was worrisome that most Nigerians had lost the values of truthfulness, nationalism and respect for human dignity. He said that the prevailing situation was the reason why corruption has festered in the country. Owasanoye said that the NEIP had such features as consequence, management and implementation template beginning with stakeholders’ sensitisation dialogue. He, however, said that for the policy to succeed, it must be people-driven. “No matter the measures put in place for the effective implementation of this policy, the efforts would not yield the desired results unless the key stakeholders embrace and own it,” Owasanoye said. In a remark, the Director-General of NOA, Dr. Garba Abari, said that the observance of national ethics had been on the downward slide. Abari, who was represented by Enugu State Director of the agency, Mr. Tony Aneke, said the zonal dialogue and launch were one of a series of advocacies that would ensure widespread adoption of the NEIP. In the same vein, Country Programme Director, Global Society for Anti-Corruption (GSAC), Mrs. Amaka Nweke, while urging the people of the South-East region to own the project, said it required collective efforts to succeed. She said that Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) would ensure that the message was taken to the grassroots as well as the various primary and secondary schools in the region. In a goodwill message, the South-East Zonal Manager, News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Mrs. Maureen Atuonwu, said that the crusade against corruption needed a holistic approach. She urged those in leadership positions, as well as other Nigerians, to subject themselves to the rule of law and do justice to all manner of persons. Also, the Patron, Enugu State Council of Traditional Rulers, Igwe Abel Nwobodo, said that there could be good changes in Nigeria in spite of how corruption had pervaded the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .