 Senator Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment PHOTO:Twitter  According to the minister, with what they achieved at yesterday’s meeting, it was expected that the courts and state assemblies would re-open next week since all the grey areas have been smoothened. “So, today we met with the unions in a small dialogue to dot the i’s and cross the t’s in the agreement which we agreed will take effect from 20th of May. “Right now, we expect the unions to go back to their members and give them a final briefing on what we have achieved today. And with this achievement of today, we are hopeful that by next week, the chambers of our courts and the doors of the state assemblies will be open for business activities to begin.” Ngige said they were not oblivious of the fact that the situation has posed serious challenges to the nation, especially as the courts are closed and the law enforcement agencies have no place to take arrested criminals. He, therefore, thanked the unions for all the efforts put in place in the final round of the dialogue in which the modalities that were not very clear the last time they met were sorted to the satisfaction of both sides. On his part, the Deputy President of JUSUN, Emmanuel Abisoye, thanked Ngige for his efforts in resolving the dispute, saying he expects all the parties to fulfill their part of the agreement. Abisoye assured that JUSUN would play its part and expressed hope that the governors would do the needful to ensure that industrial harmony returns to the courts. The President of PASAN, Mohammed Usman, expressed hope that all stakeholders would do the needful within the shortest possible period to see that the workers in the state legislatures return to work.
     
In the same vein, the President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Ayuba Wabba, thanked all the parties for reaching the milestone. “It is necessary to ensure that industrial harmony strives in this sector of our economy. It is important that this issue is put behind us,” Wabba said. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs and Secretary of the Implementation Committee for Judicial/Legislative Autonomy, Senator Ita Enang, said the country could not afford further closure of the courts and state assemblies having arrived at this stage. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .