 [FILES] INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. Photo; TWITTER/INECNIGERIA  The commission stated that building adequate security around its facilities and issues around Electoral Act Amendment are part of the things that would be incorporated in the 2022-2026 Strategic Plan (SP) and Strategic Programme of Action (SPA) of the commission. National Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, gave the hint, yesterday, at a national retreat on the validation of the draft INEC 2022-2026 Strategic Plan and Strategic Programme of Action held in Lagos. He said the threats to INEC’s facilities would make the commission beef up security to be able to organise a free, fair and credible election in Anambra State. Yakubu, who was represented by a National Commissioner and Chairman of Outreach Committee, Dr. Adekunle Ogunmola, said: “Part of what we discussed is what is happening to our local offices. It is our desire to incorporate all these issues with our strategic plan. “Anytime the Electoral Act is amended, we will also incorporate it into our strategic plan because the strategic plan is for 2022 to 2026. We still have one that is ongoing and it will expire by the end of 2021.” Asked how the strategic plan would deal with the violence attacks faced by the commission, he said: “We hope it is not something that would be on a continuous basis, we have our own risk management procedure and that is the only way we can deal with the issue. This is because we have always envisaged that before the election, there could be pockets of violence perpetuated, but these ones are on a scale very disturbing to the commission. “We thank God that it’s happening now, so it gives us ample opportunity to prepare for the Anambra elections. We are also engaging with stakeholders at the highest level in the country with a view of stemming the tide of these acts.” Yakubu said INEC would find a lasting solution to the attacks so that the Anambra elections would not be a difficult thing to plan. “We had a similar situation in the past. For instance, in Ondo State, card readers were burnt, we were able to make amends and the election was conducted without hindrance. As for Anambra, I can assure you that we will conduct the election without any problem.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .