Photo: Getty Images • 347 Retired Soldiers Set To Pass Out At Oshodi Training Centre
The Nigerian Army has pledged to partner Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya, in checking insecurity and drug peddling in the state. The governor had sought the support of the new Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Major General Farouk Yahaya at the Army Headquarters, Abuja. Yahaya lauded the state government for its re-location and construction of the 301 Artillery Regiment despite economic crunch. He said that the army would continue to give military support to Gombe State to ensure peace and prosperity. The governor told the army boss that the state has been a home for individuals who sought refuge following insurgency in neighbouring states. He, however, urged vigilance from the army to ensure peace and prosperity thrive in the state. While congratulating the COAS on his appointment, Yahaya also condoled the army on the demise of the late COAS and other military personnel. The governor recalled how the state government sacrificed by donating its NYSC permanent Orientation Camp for use of the army in rehabilitating repentant Boko Haram insurgents. Meanwhile, 347 soldiers, who have completed a six-month training in new skills are set to formally bowed out of the service this week at the Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC), in Oshodi, Lagos. The soldiers who have served the country for 35 years, from the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Navy and the Nigerian Air Force, began a six-month training in January, where skills, empowerment programmes and training were organised to help them reintegrate with the society. The commandant of NAFRC, Air Vice Marshall Adamu Idris, during Jummu’at prayers to commence a week-long activities for the ceremony, disclosed that two persons died and there were minimum casualties in the cause of the training. He, however, gave glory to God for the capacity building and skill empowerment that has been concluded. While urging members of the society to support in the reintegration process, Idris said Nigerians should see how they can better the lives of the retiring soldiers and always do whatever they can, either as leaders or as a society to support them in their new ways of life.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .