A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Festus Daumiebi, has refuted claims that there is crisis in the Bayelsa State chapter of the party, insisting that it only has a slight misunderstanding. Daumiebi, who was the party’s senatorial candidate in the last election, told The Guardian in Yenagoa that APC remained one indivisible family under the leadership of former Governor Timipre Sylva. The party, which recorded an impressive membership registration during the last registration and revalidation exercise, fell apart as a faction opened a parallel secretariat and elected another executive. But Daumiebi, who was former Director of Mobilisation for the David Lyon Campaign Organisation, said he was not aware of any parallel secretariat and executive of the party. “I am not aware as a critical stakeholder, I was the party senatorial candidate during the 2019 general elections and contested with the incumbent Governor Douye Diri. “If there was crisis in the APC, I am in a better position to know. So, I am not aware that there is a parallel party executive or secretariat of APC in Bayelsa State. APC in Bayelsa is a formidable, united front under the leadership of Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva. He argued that even in a family, there are bound to be misunderstanding and APC as a party with a robust support as recorded during the last governorship election that led to the defeat of the PDP was bound to have misunderstanding. “People have different ways of expressing their grievances, perhaps the people that just painted a place and put up a flag perhaps this is their way of expressing their grievances. “But I am not aware that there is crisis or factions in APC. There are no factions. The mere fact that someone has a house and then paint it and hoist flag in it does not make it a party secretariat,” he added. He restated that APC has one Secretariat and executive led by Jotham Amos as Chairman and Alabo Martins as Secretary under the leadership of Sylva. Daumiebi also denied of any rift between Sylva and Lyon, who was the governorship candidate in the last election, saying they remain leaders of the party in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .