 File photo dated April 20, 2009 of South African President Jacob Zuma during one of his many engagements during his 2009 presidential campaign trail for re-election. Johannesburg, South Africa, . South Africa’s highest court on Tuesday ordered the imprisonment of Jacob Zuma, the country’s former president, for 15 months on contempt charges, after he defied an order to appear before a corruption inquiry examining the breathtaking financial scandals that tainted his tenure as the country’s leader from 2009 to 2018. Photo by Halden Krog/Magazine Features/ABACAPRESS.COMNo Use Sh Africa.  In an unprecedented ruling, the Constitutional Court on Tuesday convicted Zuma for “egregious” and “aggravated” contempt of court after he refused to appear before graft investigators. If Zuma fails to turn himself in by Sunday, police will be ordered to arrest him and take him to prison. But his close associates said Zuma’s morale was good and his famously jovial energy was undimmed. “He is in high spirits, bouncing like a tennis ball,” his spokesman Mzwanele Manyi told AFP. “If it was me, I would have lost appetite, he has not lost appetite.” “I think the reason he is like that is that his soul is intact, his conscience is intact,” he added. His lawyers are still formulating a response to the ruling. Zuma, 79, is accused of enabling the plunder of state coffers during his nine years in office, which ended in February 2018 when he was forced out by the ruling African National Congress (ANC). Before he left office, he responded to mounting pressure by setting an investigative commission, headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. He was ordered on Tuesday to be jailed after years of failure to testify to the panel. Zondo on Wednesday welcomed the verdict, telling a news conference that this is “a very important judgement for our country”. But, he added, “one wishes that it had never become necessary to reach this point.” Zuma is separately facing 16 charges of fraud, graft and racketeering relating to a 1999 purchase of fighter jets, patrol boats and military gear from five European arms firms for 30 billion rand, then the equivalent of nearly $5 billion. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .