Duport Midstream Company (DMCL) has disclosed that it is developing the first energy park in Nigeria to address challenges in the downstream sector. The firm noted that the first energy park that would be commissioned October 1, 2021, is made up of gas, refinery and modular energy, adding that it is 70 percent local content as it was built locally by local contractors, while the compressors and the refinery was done in Huston. Aside the respite the energy park would be giving to the oil sector, about 20,000 Nigerians are expected to be employed under the business. According to the Chief Executive Officer, Duport Midstream Limited, Dr. Akintoye Akindele, the Duport Midstream Energy Park will have a 10,000-bpd modular refinery, 60 million scf gas processing plant, 10 million scf compressed natural gas (CNG) plant, 30,000 MT refined product terminal and a 20 MW embedded power plant. “It is a 10,000-barrel refining per day capacity but we are starting with 2,500. It is 50 megawatts plant capacity but we are starting with 5 megawatts. It is 60 million scf gas processing plant but we are starting with 40 million scf gas. “From it, we will do CNG for industries that do not have access to a gas pipeline and our LNG comes live to support industries up North of the country because CNG doesn’t travel well after 300 kilometers” Akindele explained. Indeed, the Nigerian Content Development Board (NCDMB) invested $15 million to acquire an equity stake in Duport Midstream for the development of the first energy park in West Africa. According to Akindele, the energy park is situated in Edo State from where Lagos, Ogun, Oyo and others along that axis would be served. There is a plan to locate a gas plant in Kogi also. “The refinery is strategically located along a waterfront which gives it a competitive advantage to seamlessly export finished petroleum products while achieving operational efficiency to improve profitability. “While each division of the Energy Park operates as an independent but integrated business which strengthens the business case, the reliable and consistent supply chain that ensures stable production with limited downtime and limited community-based disruption have been adopted as verified supply chain. “As part of its African expansion strategies, Duport Midstream Limited is aiming at building energy parks in Ghana, Kenya, South Africa and North Africa”, he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .