Lagos State has some of the best golf courses in West Africa. The state, known for its aquatic splendor, has been at the forefront of Nigeria’s sports development, with most of the country’s big stars tied, somehow, to its development programmes. Now it wants to set a new template, this time in golf development through the Lagos State Sports Trust Fund. Speaking to The Guardian at the weekend during the presentation of sports equipment to schools from across the state, Lagos State Sports Trust Fund Chairman, Otunba Femi Pedro, disclosed that the fund plans to build mini golf courses across the state. This, he said, would provide the avenue for children at the grassroots to learn how to play golf. Otunba Pedro, who said the Fund’s dream is to bring golf to the grassroots, said the country has not done well in the sport because there are no facilities for the desired growth. He said, “We have not been able to develop talents in golf because we don’t have the facilities. In the whole of Lagos, we have only three major golf courses, which is not even enough. And of the three, only one is a private golf course and it is very expensive.” The former Lagos’ deputy governor revealed that part of the grassroots development plan is to build facilities across the state, adding, “We are looking for landed properties that we can develop into mini-golf courses for school children and young people to even get exposed to this sport. “So many talented children don’t have the exposure. If your parents are not members of Ikoyi Club or Ikeja Club, you cannot even get close to the clubs. We believe that exposing talented children to golf at young age will help the country to produce many Tiger Woods. “We are looking for a place where we can develop golf in the metropolis of Lagos. We know golf requires a large expanse of land and Lagos is already fully built up. But we are still hopeful that we will find the space. “We found a place in Festac, but we still need one in the metropolis, where we can expose our young ones to the game. There, they will be taught by professionals.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .