Founder, African Children Discovery Foundation, Noah Dallaji (left), Project Coordinator, Emmanuel Babayaro and ex-international and ACTDF ambassador, Tijani Babangida, during the unveiling of the programme in Abuja… at the weekend Prospective footballers between 16 and 18 years have been presented the opportunity to show the skills at the second edition of the African Children Talent Discovery Foundation’s (ACTDF) talent hunt and mentoring programme in Bauchi. The programme will hold on June 26 and 27. Tagged ‘Engr. Noah Dallaji Legacy Project,’ the programme covers football, music, entertainment and the arts. According to the promoters, this year’s edition would feature football where young talents discovered would be mentored by big legends in Nigeria’s soccer history. Speaking in Abuja at the weekend, Chairman of the foundation, Noah Dallaji, said the programme was in furtherance of ACTDF’s vision and mission to discover and develop Nigerian talents to solve some of the challenges of insecurity, social ills and consequently development of the country. He harped on the need to develop the youths by enabling them to discover their talents and thus become useful to themselves, their families and the nation at large. According to him, “This is what we have been doing to see how we can fill the gap of opportunities for the young ones in the country to make impact and be useful to themselves, their communities and the society at large. “Every man has something in him that can be activated and be useful in life. Believe me, no one has that ability except you but this has to first be discovered and developed and truly nurtured.” Dallaji said the legacy project would continue to progress as an annual event, noting that this year’s edition was initially planned to incorporate such soccer greats like Ronaldo de Lima, David Beckham and Jose Mourinho but was affected by the COVID-19 restrictions. He assured that the next edition would be bigger in size, including caliber of soccer legends, who will participate.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .