The Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, yesterday affirmed that vehicle tinted glass permits duly issued by the Nigeria Police Force remain valid. The clarification comes on the heels of public enquiries following the announcement of the suspension of issuance of new tinted permits by the IGP during a meeting with senior police officers at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, on Monday, June 7, 2021. According to the spokesman for police high command, Frank Mba, the suspension, which is a temporary measure, will remain in force pending the release of a new protocol that will regulate the issuance of tinted permits for vehicle owners and operators in the country. “The IGP noted that the move is part of efforts to streamline the process of issuance and usage in line with the provisions of the Motor Vehicles (Prohibition of Tinted Glass) Act, which is explicit on conditions for the use of vehicles with tinted glasses in Nigeria. This is in addition to, among other things, effectively address contemporary security challenges associated with the usage of tinted glasses by criminal elements who hide under the cover of tinted vehicles to carry out nefarious activities,” Mba said. Similarly, the IGP warned that existing SPY number plates must be used by authorised users for the purposes and vehicles specified by law while issuance of new SPY number plates remained on hold pending the release of a new protocol that would guide its issuance and usage in the country. MEANWHILE, the IGP has directed commissioners of police in the 36 states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), as well as their supervisory Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs), to give full effect to the directives as contained above. The IGP specifically directed the AIGs and CPs to ensure that all SPY number plates currently in use by unauthorised users or affixed to unauthorised vehicles are retrieved forthwith. He directed that officers, while carrying out these assignments, must ensure the rights and privileges of citizens are respected in line with the laws of the land and in accordance with international best practices. The IGP enjoined the public to cooperate with the police in this regard as the moves are aimed at strengthening its internal security order. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .