The suspects Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have arrested two drug dealers with a total of 24.450 kilogrammes of assorted substances meant to be delivered in Gwada, Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State, where bandits in neighbouring forest buy their illicit drugs. Gwada has one of the two functional markets bordering the forest where bandits and kidnappers hibernate in Niger State. Drugs seized from the suspects, Martins Okwor Ejiofor, 31 and Bala Mohammed, 33, included Codeine (7.100kgs), Diazepam (6.400kgs) and Exol 5 (10.950kg). Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Femi Babafemi, said in a statement that Kwara State NDLEA Command’s highway patrol team along Okolowo, Ilorin-Jebba highway, intercepted the consignment in a bus, with registration number Niger 14 B.40NG, belonging to Niger State Transport Authority on Saturday June 5, 2021. He stressed that Martins Ejiofor had travelled to Lagos with the second suspect to procure the drugs and deliver to dealers in Gwada. “During interrogation, he confessed that he had been arrested with over 50 kilogrammes of cannabis sativa and charged to court by the Niger State Command of the agency in 2020. He completed his one-year jail term in March this year and resumed his nefarious illicit drug business.” Also, another suspect, Usman Abass, 38, was arrested with 6.8kgs of cannabis sativa concealed in a sack containing used clothes, which the suspect bought at Alaba International Market in Lagos. “The suspect, upon interrogation, claimed that one Baba gave him the exhibit to deliver to one Lawali in Daura, Katsina State, before his arrest by a team of the command’s operatives attached to Jebba Area Command during a routine stop-and-search operation. The suspect confessed that he had transported cannabis sativa once to Katsina and that the latest trip was his second. “The previous day, Friday, June 4, 2021, operatives of the Delta State Command of the agency arrested 20-year-old Chukwujeku Lucky at Ogwashi Uku, Delta State with multiple drugs weighing 38.90 kilogrammes. “Some of the drugs seized from his apartment where he serves as a salesman include 68 blocks of cannabis sativa weighing 38.7kg; 498 pinches of cocaine (50.9 grams); 33 pinches of heroin (4.4 grams); 304 capsules of Tramadol (91grams); 72 tablets of Swinol (27 grams), and 26 grams of Methamphetamine,” the statement added. Meanwhile, chairman and Chief Executive of the NDLEA, Mohamed Buba Marwa, commended the commanders, officers and men of both Kwara and Delta commands for the arrests and seizures. He said the development would in no small measure reduce the availability of illicit substances available to bandits and other criminal elements who take them as enhancers of their evil enterprise. He urged them to remain vigilant and continue to acquaint themselves with the latest modes of concealment and transportation of illicit drugs by defiant traffickers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .