Dawson’s Creek Writer, Heidi Ferrer, Dead At 50 Dawson’s Creek writer Heidi Ferrer has died aged 50. It has been confirmed by her family that the writer passed away on May 26 at her home in Los Angeles, California, following a long battle with Covid-19. The mother-of-one had been battling with the virus since April last year and had been experiencing body aches, including pains in her feet and ankles according to a report by The Mirror. She also suffered from fatigue and flu-like symptoms. She was said to be bedridden during the first few months of contracting the virus, and once again in her final months. Her husband Nick Guthe confirmed the heartbreaking news on social media. He tweeted: My beautiful angel, Heidi, passed over tonight after a 13 month battle with Long Haul Covid. She was an amazing mother. She fought this insidious disease with the same ferocity she lived with. I love you forever and I’ll see you down the road. Heidi was also known for being the writer on the hit show Wasteland and had scripted several movies. She had taken to blogging to share her story as she fought long Covid. In September, she shared a heartbreaking post titled How I’m recovering from long haul COVID. In it, she described how the virus had crippled her but she said that “COVID won’t win”. She penned: The monster is real and it came for me. Recovering from COVID-19 has been one of the hardest things I’ve ever gone through and I’ve been through a lot. In my darkest moments, I told my husband that if I didn’t get better, I did not want to live like this. I wasn’t suicidal, I just couldn’t see any quality of life long term and there was no end in sight. One of the cruelest things COVID did to me was to take away my ability to have dreams. I don’t mean dreams in my sleep, I mean I completely stopped dreaming about my future because I couldn’t picture it. It was a wall. Yes, everyone had lost our trips, our events, our free lives during the shutdown, but I had lost all of that and also became suddenly crippled with scary neurological programs. I’m not out of the woods yet, but I see a clearing. Heidi is survived by her husband Nick and their 13-year-old son Bexon.