Women and Family Advancement Initiative (WAFAI) has blamed Nigeria’s socio-political and economic woes on the absence of good governance at the grassroots. Stating this yesterday at the South East Inauguration and Induction of Ambassadors into the WAFAI Grassroots Foundation, in Awka, Anambra State, the founder of WAFAI, Dr. Francisca Obi, lamented that the rural areas were neglected in terms of planning and development. She noted that most people in the rural areas, where there is a high concentration of the country’s population, live in abject poverty and neglect in terms of socio-economic and political wellbeing. According to her, the theme, ‘Advocacy for Good Leadership and Grassroots Development’ is in line with the goal of the foundation to promote good governance through community response services. Nigeria is blessed with adequate human and natural resources, enough to cater for the population, she said, lamenting that the resources are mismanaged due to poor governance, especially at the grassroots. Obi said: “Good leadership and governance is about the uplift and development of those at the grassroots. If this is not achieved, there will be socio-economic challenges. Poverty and unemployment are on the rise and this is fuelling insecurity in our society. “We recognise that government alone cannot solve these problems, which is, why since 2009, we have been carrying out empowerment projects in about five states. Now we are in Anambra.” WAFAI equally advocates against crimes and social vices, corruption and election malpractice, especially with the preparation of the governorship election in Anambra on November 6, 2021. [AD] Also speaking at the event, Prof. Samuel Ezeanyika of the Department of Political Science, Imo State University (IMSU), Owerri, stressed the need for an increase in advocacy and re-orientation of the people, especially at the grassroots, to vote for accountable leaders who would make the people feel government’s presence. He said that achieving good leadership and grassroots development required intensive advocacy.
Stakeholders attended the programme from the five states of the South-East geo-political zone.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .