 Blessing Okagbare after she ran a wind assisted 10.62 seconds during the AFN National Trials held at Yaba College of Technology. Lagos  Team Nigeria’s quest for Tokyo Olympics tickets in both men’s 4x100m and women’s 4x400m relays could not materialise in Lagos yesterday. But the women’s 4x100m made up of Blessing Okagbare, Grace Nwokocha, Blessing Ogundare and Rosemary Chukwuma gave the spectators something to celebrate, as they ran 42.97 seconds to improve on their previous time. The women team has, however, provisionally qualified for the 4x100m event.  However, the teams could still qualify for the Olympics at the Lagos Open Athletics Championships fixed for June 24. To that effect, the foreign countries, Cote d’Ivoire, Senegal and Zambia have been prevailed on to stay for the championships. To make that possible, the Lagos State government has promised to foot their bills for as long as they stay in Nigeria. MEANWHILE, Nigeria Olympics Committee (NOC) President, Habu Gumel, said the presence of two top officials of the Confederation of African Athletics (CAA) at the Olympics trials organised by the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) ended the leadership crisis in the governing body.
 
The leadership crisis rocking the AFN was further heightened last week when a factional body emerged in Kebbi a few minutes after Tony Okowa was voted as president at an AFN elective Congress attended by chairmen and secretaries of various states’ athletics association in Abuja. The emergence of the faction in Kebbi notwithstanding, Okowa and his board members, with support from the sports ministry, staged the National Trials in Lagos, where Nigerian athletes for the Tokyo Olympics were selected. Two top CAA officials, Timothy Inmin Abdusaheed and Dr. Sidiq Sudan, a member of World Athletics (WA) Commission for competitions, as well as Secretary of Eastern Region, witnessed the AFN Olympics trials, which ended yesterday at Yaba College of Technology, Lagos.
 
Speaking with The Guardian at Yabatech, Gumel said the presence of the two CAA officials was a clear indication that the Tony Okowa-led AFN board is the only one recognised by both the African and world bodies.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .