 Ozigbo  This is as Valentine Ozigbo, at his latest town hall meeting with the delegates in Awka, yesterday, sued for unity among stakeholders for a common front that would unseat the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), which has been in the state’s saddle since 2006. Sixteen PDP aspirants are contesting the party’s ticket for the race to succeed Governor Willie Obiano on March 17, 2022. Ozigbo, who few days ago resigned as the President and Group Chief Executive Officer of Transcorp Group, told about 2,500 PDP delegates in Awka that the fate of Anambra for the next four years was in their hands. “Whether you emerged through a free and fair process, community consensus or even violent imposition, the truth is that you will decide the flag-bearer of our great party and, invariably, the future of our children and the generations after them,” Ozigbo told the delegates, describing the coming election is PDP’s best shot at kicking out APGA from Agu Awka. “We must do the right thing at the primaries. The people of Anambra are waiting for us to show willingness to depart from the old way of doing things.” “If you are here and I am not your number one choice (I am not here to poison your mind against your preferred aspirant; I am only here to present myself and my credentials), it is up to you to decide. So I urge you to listen with an open mind and ask God for guidance,” he said. According to him, the time has come for Anambra people to change their story. “Our #KaAnambraChawapu manifesto is designed to cater for the needs of every Anambra citizen, irrespective of their social status. We will give every sector the necessary attention they need to meet global standards. “We will also implement a cluster approach to development by fixing different geographical demographies using their unique economic advantages. We will also partner with Ndi Anambra by encouraging their efforts with government concessions,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .