 Amina Mohammed  President Muhammadu Buhari has predicted that Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations, Amina Mohammed, would one day occupy the coveted position of the world number one civil servant in the next six years as first female Secretary-General of the Global Body. In the same vein, former Liberian President, Ellen Sirleaf Johnson also expressed the wish that Nigerian politicians will take a cue from Liberia to elect Amina as the first female president in the country and second on the African continent. Both leaders expressed their wishes as they joined other dignitaries and world leaders in Abuja to extol the virtues of Mohammed on her 60th birthday. In a goodwill message at a symposium organised by the Centre For Public Research and Development to commemorate his former minister’s 60th birthday, President Buhari, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Agboola Ibrahim Gambari, congratulated Mohammed for the feat she has attained on the global scale. He said her recent reappointment was one of the testaments of her credentials. “It is not surprising therefore that after completing her tenure, the UN Secretary-General graciously reappointed her as Deputy Secretary-General, the second African and the first to be done by female African for the Job, of course, Nigerian. On this note, I am optimistic that she will become the first female Secretary-General. Who knows, six years is not far from here,” he said. The former Liberian President on her part made the call in her keynote address at the occasion, describing Mohammed as a force of nature and consensus builder, who had over time beat every odds to pride herself as a global brand. She said Mohammed is ripe for the plum job and also qualified to be elected as President in Nigeria as a second female president in Africa. She said the support by men would be a stepping point because they must recognise the capabilities and contributions of women to sustain the government for peace and security of the nation. In a related development in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello described Mrs. Mohammed as an inspiration, a role model to millions of young Nigerians. Bello, who stated this during a visit by the UN Deputy Secretary to Government Secondary School, Kabusa, as part of activities to mark her 60th birthday, said the visit will further spur the students to realise their full potentials through hard work and determination. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .