 Osagie Ehanire  Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, has commissioned the N25.9 billion Peter Odili Cancer, Cardiovascular Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centre in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. He explained that the centre would augment the assets available to treat Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and boost efforts to reduce NCD prevalence, not only in Rivers States, but also in the South-South and entire country. Ehanire spoke in Port Harcourt, yesterday, at the commencement of construction work on the Peter Odili Cancer and Cardiovascular Disease Treatment Centre. “I observe that this project has been named after someone, who has built a reputation, not just as a medical practitioner, but as a former governor. I salute you, Your Excellency, Dr. Peter Odili, for your contributions to this state and congratulate you on the recognition the people have accorded you,” he said. He commended Governor Nyesom Wike for his vision and achievement in the health sector, stressing that he (Wike) had shown his commitment and determination to add value to the state’s healthcare system. Speaking, Wike said the centre, which features advanced healthcare services such as chemotherapy and nuclear medicine would be completed within 14 months. The governor said, in spite of the prevailing insecurity issues and economic problems plaguing Nigeria, his administration had sustained its project delivery mantra. He restated that because Rivers people supported his emergence as governor in 2015 and in 2019 against all detractors, he vowed to give the best infrastructure to the state and its people. On the rational for naming the centre after Odili, he declared that but for the former governor, an Ikwerre man would not have become governor of the state. Also at the inauguration of the Mother and Child Hospital in Rumuomasi Town, Wike said it was sad that medical doctors have shown less capacity in managing most health facilities in the country. He, therefore, challenged medical doctors to be more responsible in maintaining the public healthcare facility and not allow the investment to waste. Odili, who, on behalf of his family, commended Wike for considering him worthy for the honour, said the Wike administration invested massively in the training of health personnel and currently sponsoring 490 medical students on state’s scholarship at the PAMO University of Medical Sciences. On his part, Rivers State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Princewill Chike, said: “The Cancer and Cardiovascular Disease Treatment Centre is a three storey building facility that will also have a section for emergency cases.” On the Mother and Child Hospital, Prof. Chike said the 132-bed facility has 50 delivery rooms, six modular operating theatres, invitro-fertilisation, fluoroscopic and mamography equipment. Also, President of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Prof. Innocent Ujah, said the health sector had taken the lead in Governor Wike’s administration and commended him for honouring Odili. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .