Nigeria’s Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed (Photo by Kola Sulaimon / AFP) Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism, Lai Mohammed, yesterday, said Federal Government had identified about 476 online platforms devoted to bringing down the All Progressives Congress (APC). The minister said this in Lagos at a meeting by Progressive Governors’ Forum for information managers in APC-led government at federal and state levels across Nigeria. Mohammed, who spoke on “Mitigating the Contemporary Challenges of Information and Communication Management,” said that the most daunting task anyone could take on in this age and time is that of information and communication management. The minister noted that aside from funds challenge, information managers also face the challenges posed by new information and digital technology. He said that leveraging the new information and digital technology would undoubtedly facilitate information managers’ work, saying: “The multiplicity, immediacy and pervasiveness of the platforms of information dissemination mean that we can reach more people much faster. Ordinarily, that should be a good thing. But when you remember that those who are trying hard to distort the information you are putting out also have access to the same technology, you will realise the meaning of the paradox of technology that I spoke about earlier.” Also speaking, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has described the job of government information managers as a difficult one. He further said that the proper framework of communication by government is the bedrock of any governance. According to him, the challenge many in government are facing is the inability to communicate well with the people, giving room for crisis and misinformation. Sanwo-Olu said the task of government is to resolve crisis, promising that the APC government at federal and state levels is ready to take the needed steps to resolve all communication challenges.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .