MASSOB The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has urged the Igbo, including members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and the Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), to participate fully in the voter registration exercise to increase numeric stamina during the 2023 general elections. Similarly, the apex group also implored President Muhammadu Buhari to fulfil the promise he made in Aba that he would make Igbo man president in 2023. They said that it’s only a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction that could assuage the grief of the Igbo people, adding that the marginalisation and injustice will end the clamour for secession. Secretary General of the group, Mazi Okechukwu Isifuzoro, in a statement in Abakaliki, noted that Ndigbo residing in the 36 states of the country must know the importance of the voter registration exercise and sacrifice time to participate in it. He maintained that Biafra agitators, especially IPOB and MASSOB, must see beyond their noses and mobilise the people for the registration exercise as there might be a future referendum, stressing that it’s only those with voter cards that will participate in the future referendum. He urged the Ndigbo not to be discouraged by the manipulation of the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) allotment of least polling units to the South-East but capitalise on the Igbo presence in every 774 local councils for electoral pursuits. “This is the finest time for the Ndigbo, including the youths that had never taken part in the voting exercise, to register for the first time, especially those that would be 18 years old this year. And our target Igbo population is 18-29 years old (those Big Brother Naija zealous youths). “Diaspora voting privileges must be a focal point of the National Diaspora Commission as it will be a great legacy project that will outlast Buhari’s government. Nigerians abroad have the right to take part in this electoral process, as Foreign Missions and Embassies must serve as centres for online voter enrolment. “We are not advocating for South-East presidency, what we are advocating for is a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction. There are Ndigbo in Rivers, Delta and Benue states and so on, but the core zone that demands equity, justice and fairness is South-East, which has not produced a Nigerian president. “If peradventure the injustice or any attempt to thwart 2023 Igbo presidency succeeds, it will not augur well with the unity of the country. It will strengthen self-determination, and the agitation for Biafra. It is only a justified Igbo presidency that will unite Nigeria,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .