Alcohol | Image: Very Well Mind Doing things in moderation is always the best option. This applies to alcohol intake and many other things in life. Both genders take alcohol, however, according to the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention:
“Men are more likely than women to drink excessively. Excessive drinking is associated with significant risks to men’s health and safety, and the risks increase with the amount of alcohol consumed. Men are also more likely than women to take other risks (such as misusing other substances, having multiple sex partners, or not wearing a seat belt), that when combined with alcohol, further increase their risk of illness, injury, or death.” Apart from the fun most men get from taking alcohol, there are a series of health risks associated with too much intake of alcohol, and below are some: Alcohol Can Affect Fertility, Sexual Performance, And Sexual Health
Alcohol depresses the central nervous system which can make it difficult for some men to get, and keep an erection. Unprotected sex is far more common when alcohol is involved, and this can lead to sexually transmitted diseases and unplanned pregnancy. Excessive alcohol use can directly interfere with the function of the testicles and affect the normal production of male hormones. When this happens, a man can experience erectile dysfunction, impotence, and infertility. A man drinking | Image: LeonHousePrivateClinic Studies have again shown that alcohol reduces testosterone, which can lead to loss of libido–or the desire to have sex–and reduce sperm quantity and quality. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), approximately 35 per cent of cases of infertility in men are linked to alcohol intake. Over the medium- to long-term, this can affect secondary sex characteristics, including the loss of facial and chest hair and the abnormal growth of breast tissue (gynaecomastia). Lead to Weight Gain
Typically, men show weight gain around their middle body parts, which is how the term ‘beer belly’ came about. Fat around the middle of our bodies is believed to be especially harmful, because when it is laid down directly on the organs inside the abdomen (belly), including the liver. Weight gain from any cause, including drinking, as well as alcohol’s effect on men’s hormones, can also show around the chest in men, causing the breasts to get bigger–this is often referred to as ‘man boobs’. Health-related Deaths
While cirrhosis and liver cancer are the two primary health concerns for both men and women with long-term alcohol dependence, there are certain conditions for which a man is more likely to die. According to research from the School of Public Health at the University of Minnesota, there are certain health conditions for which alcoholic men are at higher risk of death. When compared to a matched set of men and women over the age of 65, the researchers found that: Alcohol Leads To Injury and Cancer
According to a survey by CDC, Men have higher rates of alcohol-related hospitalizations than women. Nearly three-quarters of deaths from excessive drinking are among males, totalling about 68,000 deaths each year. Also, among drivers in fatal motor vehicle traffic crashes, men are 50% more likely to have been intoxicated (i.e., a blood alcohol concentration of 0.08% or greater) compared with women. Excessive alcohol consumption increases aggression and may increase the risk of physically assaulting another person. Alcohol is a key risk factor for sexual violence perpetration. Males are more than three times as likely to die by suicide than females, and more likely to have been drinking before suicide. Alcohol use is one of the most important preventable risk factors for cancer. Alcohol use increases the risk of cancer of the mouth, throat, oesophagus, liver, and colon, which are more common among men. Drinking alcohol also increases the risk of prostate cancer. If you find yourself addicted to alcohol, there are some steps you can take to reduce it. You should also know talking to your family about it will help you curtail your intake. Keep track of what you’re drinking and set goals to reduce it. Also, drinking water or soft drinks and alternating them with your alcoholic drinks can help you cut down on the amount of alcohol you consume overall. Keep healthy and live long.