Photo/Twitter/HQNigerianArmy In major shakeup in the Nigerian Army, Maj. Gen. Chris Musa has emerged as the new Theatre Commander of Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK) in the Northeast. The appointments and redeployment were made for dozens of military officers and men across various Army formations. Army Director for Public Relations, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Yerima, in a statement in Maiduguri yesterday said: “These appointments and redeployment are in line with the vision of the Chief of Army Staff, Maj. Gen. Farouk Yahaya. The deployments are to have a professional Nigerian Army ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in defense of the country.” He said all posting and appointments are to take immediate effect in military formations across the country. The shake-up comes following President Muhammadu Buhari’s appointment of Yahaya as the new Chief of Army Staff after the death of Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru. Those affected in the Army’s reorganisation include Maj. Gen. FO Omoigui from Headquarters Theatre Command Operation Hadin Kai to Land Forces Simulation Centre Nigeria and appointed Director-General, Maj. Gen. CG Musa from Nigerian Army Resource Centre to Headquarters Theatre Command Operation Hadin Kai. Musa has been appointed the new Theatre Commander. Also, Maj. Gen. OR Aiyenigba from the Defence Headquarters to Headquarters Nigerian Army Corps of Military Police and appointed Provost Marshal (Army). Maj. Gen. IM Jallo from Defence Space Administration to Headquarters Theatre Command Operation Hadin Kai and appointed as Deputy Theatre Commander. Others affected in the posting include Brigadier General NU Muktar from Nigeria High Commission Islamabad to Office of the Chief of Army Staff. He is appointed as Director of Procurement. Brig. Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu from Defense Headquarters (Director Defence Information) to Headquarters Directorate of Army Public Relations, as the new Director. Brig. Gen. AE Abubakar from Department of Training and Operations (Defunct) to Headquarters 22 Brigade and appointed Commander. Brig. Gen. KO Ukandu from Office of the Chief of Army Staff (Director Procurement) to National Defense College and appointed Directing Staff.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .