Woman Apologises For Leaking Video Of Trey Songz Sleeping It seems Trey Songz has been making it to the media headline often than before. The singer nearly found himself in yet another controversial internet moment when a video of him sleeping hit the Internet. It was a video shared by a woman which led to immediate speculation that they might be more than friends. Shortly after the video started making rounds, a woman named Dime Racks cleared the air and stated that she did not share the video with any malicious intent. In fact, she said that she really didn’t think that it would cause this much blowback. “I want to publicly apologize to Trey. I never really meant for anything to, like, go to the extreme to The Shade Room, like, that’s runnin’ out,” she explained. “I never posted it to Facebook. Somebody took it to Facebook and that’s how it blew up and it got to The Shade Room. And I post things to my Snap all the time with different celebrities that have never gotten to The Shade Room. So, I don’t know how the situation with Trey got there but I wanna apologize. Trey has yet to respond to the apology, at least publicly but he did make a concerted effort to address the video with a little bit of help from Shaggy. The rapper shared a video to his story with “Wasn’t Me” playing in the background, right when Shaggy sings, “But she caught me on the counter (wasn’t me)/ Saw me bangin’ on the sofa (wasn’t me).” Dime Racks, whose name is Diamond Washington, is a social media personality and Only Fans star. Trey Songz is an American singer-songwriter and actor. His debut album, I Gotta Make It, was released in 2005 through Atlantic Records. His follow-up album, Trey Day, spawned his first top 20 single, “Can’t Help but Wait”. Songz released his third album Ready in 2009 and a single from the album, “Say Aah” (featuring Fabolous), peaked at No. 9 on the Billboard Hot 100 making it Songz’s first top 10 hits. Ready was nominated for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance at the 2008 Grammy Awards.