 Lagos-Ibadan railway. Photo: TWITTER/CCECC8  The level of comfort, leg-room in the coaches and the ease with which the train glided on the newly laid tracks was a big relief from the excruciating experience of driving through the ever-busy Lagos-Ibadan express road.
   
Specifically, commuters highlighted the notoriety of the Lagos-Ibadan highway for such uncertainties as incessant road crashes, kidnappings, robbery attacks, and traffic gridlock, among others. In 2018 alone, an estimated 500 persons were said to have lost their lives while plying the ever-busy road. President Muhammadu Buhari being entertained alongside other dignitaries inside a meeting roaom coach on the Lagos-Ibadan Rail during the commissioning of the project<br />  Funding
FOR funding, the Federal Government was at a vantage point given the fact that the $1.6billion approved for the construction of 157km railway line was domiciled at the China Exim Bank. The money was to be released only to the contractors after recommendation by the Ministry of Transport based on their level of work. With that strategy in place, the minister was able to ensure that the contractors did not default or renege on the agreement or timelines.
 
Stakeholders recalled a period when the contractors were taking so long to link a bridge due to the soil texture and topography of a place somewhere around Ibadan. However, after the minister informed them of his return to inspect the project, the contractors had constructed the bridge before his arrival. That was part of the behind the scene approaches that led to the timely delivery of the project.
   
Observers contended also that if the fund for the project was domiciled with the Federal Government, the ‘Nigeria factor’ would have set in, leading to a possible abandonment due to the usual claim of the paucity of funds. The development partner approach helped to achieve the milestone. Challenges
WITHOUT a doubt, the Lagos-Ibadan Rail project came with a lot of challenges. For instance, the Minister disclosed that 1000 houses were demolished to construct the rail line through Abeokuta.
  
Amaechi stated: “When I told the former governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun that the contractors would have to demolish 1000 houses to construct the rail line through the state, he initially told me to take the tracks to another state. But, after considering the economic benefit of constructing the rail line through his state, the governor agreed. So the indigenes, whose houses were affected, were duly compensated and construction work began.”
  
Comparatively, the contractors disclosed that they did not experience many challenges on the Abeokuta-Ibadan axis as the Lagos axis. They said linking the Iju-Ishaga Station to Ebute Metta was a herculean task due to the busy nature of the state and the challenge of relocating the crude oil and Water pipelines along the rail route.  Finished Project
THE Lagos-Ibadan line is a double-track standard gauge rail, the first of its kind in the West African sub-region. It runs from Nigeria’s economic hub and most populous city, Lagos, to Ibadan, the capital of Oyo State, with a total of 10 stations interspersed.
   
With trains operating at a maximum speed of 150 km/h, the infrastructure cut the travel time between the two cities to two hours, according to the CCECC. Corroborating the assertion, Managing Director, Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Fidelis Okhiria said with the commissioning of the railway, the corporation would begin to run four schedules from Lagos to Ibadan, assuring that NRC would stick to the 1:30 minutes travel time.  He said he doesn’t care about the government responsible for the construction of the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line as long as it is there. “For now, we are keeping our feet on the ground looking for opportunities for traders and commuters, among others. I don’t give a damn who put it there, it doesn’t matter whatsoever as long as it is. This is not a question of killing; this is a matter of being creative. This is not a do or die occasion, but do and do the occasion,” Soyinka said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .