A supporter of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader Nnamdi Kanu holds a Biafra flag during a rally in support of Kanu, who is expected to appear at a magistrate court in Abuja, Nigeria December 1, 2015. Kanu – an activist who divides his time between the UK and Nigeria, spreading his ethos on social media and Radio Biafra – was arrested on charges of criminal conspiracy and belonging to an illegal society.  REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde The police in Imo have arrested a 40-year-old man, Uzoamaka Ugoanyanwu, said to be a notorious native doctor who allegedly prepares charms for members of the Indigenous People of Biafra IPOB and members of the Eastern Security Network (ESN). The Commissioner of Police in Imo Mr Abutu Yaro, confirmed the arrest in statement signed by the command’s spokesman SP Bala Alkana. The CP said the police also arrested nine suspects who took part in the attack on the country home of Gov. Hope Uzodimma. Yaro said the breakthrough followed a painstaking investigation carried out by the command’s tactical units and urged criminal elements who are still in possession of Police arms to willingly return them. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that police with the support of the military, foiled a deadly attack on Police headquarters on Sunday and killed five members of the ESN. They also invaded ESN camp on Monday in Ikeduru council area, dislodged the camp and rescued a female police officer held captive. “In consonance with  the mandate given to the operatives of the command by IGP Alkali Usman to fish out all criminal elements in the state and restore normalcy to the state, we have declared war on criminal elements. “On June 8, at about 1630 hrs,  tactical teams of the command through diligent and painstaking investigations, stormed Ukwuorji, Mbaitoli Local Government area, along Onitsha road and arrested one Ezeugo Ordu, a native of Ubachima, Omuma, Oru West LGA. “He confessed to being a  member  of IPOB/ESN and made useful  statements to  the Police as regards to the recent attacks on Police  stations as well as the residence of Gov. Uzodinma. “He further led operatives of the command to the IPOB/ESN camp, a bush close to Njaba River, 9 persons were arrested at the criminal  hideout while planning another attack, assorted charms were recovered from them. “However, two  out of the 9 arrested in the hideout, Chinedu Nwakaire and Uzoamaka Ugoanyawu the native doctor, were identified to be part of the hoodlums that  attacked the private residence of the governor recently,” he said. Furthermore, the CP reiterated the call on members of the IPOB/ESN,  or any other criminal syndicate  operating in the state, especially  those who stole police arms and ammunitions to voluntarily surrender themselves to enable them get a ”soft landing”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .