 Maj.-Gen. Farouk Yahaya  Out-going spokesman of the army, Brig. Gen. M. Yerima said the shakeup was is in line with the Chief of Army Staff vision to have a professional Nigerian army ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in Defence of Nigeria. Those affected in the reorganization included Major General FO Omoigui transferred from Headquarters Theatre Command, Operation HADIN KAI to Land Forces Simulation Centre, Nigeria and appointed Director General, Major General CG Musa moved from Nigerian Army Resource Centre to Headquarters Theatre Command Operation HADIN KAI and appointed Theatre Commander, Major General OR Aiyenigba moved from Defence Headquarters to Headquarters Nigerian Army Corps of Military Police and appointed Provost Marshal (Army) and  Major General IM Jallo from Defence Space Administration to Headquarters Theatre Command Operation HADIN KAI and appointed Deputy Theatre Commander 1. Others affected in the posting included Brigadier General NU Muktar from Nigeria High Commission Islamabad to Office of the Chief of Army Staff and appointed Director of Procurement, Brigadier General O Nwachukwu from Defence Headquarters (Director Defence Information) to Headquarters Directorate of Army Public Relations and appointed Director, Brigadier General AE Abubakar from Department of Training and Operations (Defunct) to Headquarters 22 Brigade and appointed Commander, Brigadier General KO Ukandu from Office of the Chief of Army Staff (Director Procurement) to National Defence College and appointed Directing Staff, Brigadier General IB Abubakar from Nigerian Army Armour School to Army Headquarters Department of Army Operations and appointed Deputy Director Operations, Brigadier General AM Umar from Army War College Nigeria to Office of the Chief of Army Staff and appointed Chief of Staff to the Chief of Army Staff and  Brigadier General AJS Gulani from Nigerian Army Armour School to Headquarters 24 Task Force Brigade and appointed Commander. Others were Colonel KE Inyang from Headquarters Department of Army Logistics to Office of the Chief of Army Staff and appointed Military Assistant to the Chief of Army Staff, Colonel OO Braimah from Headquarters Theatre Command Operation HADIN KAI to Nigeria High Commission Islamabad and appointed Defence Attachee and Colonel IP Omoke from Office of the Chief of Army Staff to Defence Intelligence Agency and appointed Assistor Director Foreign Liaison/ Liaison Officer (Army). Farouk Yahaya urged all the affected senior officers to justify the confidence reposed on them. All posting and appointments are with immediate effect. President Muhammadu Buhari few weeks ago appointed Major-General Farouk Yahaya as the new Chief of Army Staff, with about 20 generals of Regular Course 35 and 36 expected to proceed on retirement. The new Army chief, who was appointed to replace late Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru who died in a plane crash in Kaduna recently alongside 10 other military officers, is of Regular Course 37.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .