• Motorcyclist dies in lone accident The police in Osun State have arrested a 21-year-old Olarewaju Tosin, of Eko-Ende Road, Ikirun for alleged cult activities. Tosin was arrested following the death of a yet-to-be-identified resident of Osogbo, who was shot dead by some suspected rival cult members in the state. Spokesperson for Osun State Command, SP Yemisi Opalola, confirmed his arrest. It was gathered that the deceased youth, suspected to be a cultist, was chased by six persons on two motorcycles from Ibokun to Sasa area in Osogbo around 5:00p.m. on Sunday before he was caught and killed. An eyewitness, who spoke in confidence, told The Guardian that the deceased had a short gun on him and the weapon dropped off immediately he was gunned down by the suspected cultists. “When they chased him to Sasa Junction, people started running. But he could not escape as those who were chasing him brought out gun and shot him dead. A short gun dropped off his hand immediately he fell down and the six people who shot him picked it up and headed towards Ibokun Road,” the witness said. The incident led to a pandemonium as traders and passers-by scampered to safety. The market area at Sasa was also deserted after the incident as the corpse of the victim still lay on the ground. Opalola said the corpse of the young man had been deposited to UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital morgue in Osogbo, while efforts were ongoing to arrest fleeing suspects. It would be recalled that some suspected cultists had, on Thursday, smashed the head of one Shogo with a stone in Osogbo. Also, a yet to be-identified man has died in an early morning lone accident in Osogbo. It was gathered that the crash, which involved one motorcycle, happened around 6:50 a.m. near Osogbo-Ikirun Road, LAMECO Roundabout, Osogbo. The crash, according to the Sector Public Education Officer for Osun Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Agnes Ogungbemi, was probably caused by speeding. She said the phone of the deceased and the motorcycle involved in the crash were brought to the FRSC base in Osun State, adding that the corpse had been deposited in a morgue. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .