Show Highlights:  The 2nd China-Middle East & North Africa International Trade Digital Expo will take place online through the digital exhibition platform GTW-VE from 15 to 24 June 2021; This online Expo is designed to serve the trade demands between China and the Middle East & North African countries during the COVID-19 pandemic crisis and to further promote the economic and trade relations between China and MENA through a digital exhibition platform; More than 1,000 enterprises from China and overseas will showcase their products and services at the Expo, highlighted by six B2B matchmakings focusing on different industries, which will be held concurrently during the event; More than 10,000 professional clients mainly from the Middle East & North Africa are expected to visit the Expo to seek business partnership and trading opportunities. Following the success of the 1st edition of this Trade Digital Expo in 2020 and with the aim to strengthen connectivity and further improve the economic and trade ties between China and MENA and boost industry vitality amid the Covid-19 pandemic crisis, the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT), in cooperation with the China Chamber of International Commerce (CCOIC), will be hosting the second edition of China – Middle East & North Africa International Trade Digital Expo, from 15th to 24th June 2021. Organized by the CCOIC, the exhibition is intended to rebuild a two-way supply chain to help connect buyers and suppliers. In particular, the exhibition is targeted at MENA businesses wanting to find reliable suppliers or those looking to invest in China. This virtual exhibition will be held on the digital platform GTW-VE, an online exhibition platform designed and developed by MIE Group, will see the support of 1,000+ companies from Consumer goods, Home Decoration, Building materials, Automobile and accessories, Hardware, Infrastructure, Construction, Food Agriculture, Trade in services and many more. One of the main highlights of this ten-day event are B2B matchmakings where officials, industry leaders, businessmen, key-players, experts, and innovators gather and meet to interact and share their insights about the market, trade and investment opportunities. Each matchmaking meeting will focus on specific industrial sectors as follows: A Digital Trade Bridge Between China and MENA Countries COVID-19 has shed a massive and severe impact on global business around the world. CCPIT hosts this online digital exhibition in its aim to alleviate the impact of the pandemic crisis and assist enterprises to maintain and develop their business in Middle East and North Africa. It also takes advantage of the internet technology to meet the trade demand of China and MENA countries and advance the economic and trade relations between them. Special Launching of “The 50th Anniversary of the Establishment of the Diplomatic Relations Between China and Turkey During the events, a special B2B matchmaking between China and Turkey will be held to help Turkish enterprises expand their business into the Chinese market. This coincides with the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. The session will look to continuously push forward the China-Turkey economic and trade relations to a wider area and a higher level of commitment. Digital Display and Precise B2B Matchmaking Digital exhibitions will play a vital role in resuming productions and facilitating trade in the long run. The Expo will set up an online digital exhibition venue where service providers can display their products and services. Exhibitors are permitted to showcase their products through vivid, live broadcasting video meetings, while webinars can also be conducted via the online platform. Through big data matchmaking and intelligent search engine, precise B2B matching between buyers and sellers will be easy to accomplish, while buyer’s purchase information will be automatically recommended to corresponding exhibitors. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of China Chamber of International Commerce (CCOIC). Media Contact: 
China Chamber of International Commerce (CCOIC)
Ms. Zhou Xuan: +86-10-82217251
Email address: zhouxuan@ccoic.cn
Mobile: +86 188 1098 2800 (WhatsApp) For more information, please log on to www.globaltradeweek.com/ccpit2021 About CCPIT:
Founded in 1952, the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) is a national foreign trade and investment promotion agency. The major responsibilities of the CCPIT includes: About CCOIC:
The China Chamber of International Commerce or CCOIC was established in 1988 with the approval of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China. Affiliated to China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT), CCOIC is a nationwide Chamber of Commerce comprised of enterprises, groups and other business organizations that are engaged in international commercial activities across China. CCOIC adopts a membership system, and its main responsibilities include: With the aim of building a hub-like Chamber of Commerce, CCOIC has institutional cooperation with other business associations from home and abroad and provides services for its members and other enterprises including international exchange, industrial cooperation, legal advice, market information, exhibition planning, project investment and training. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .