Married England Star Michael Owen Begged Reality TV Star For Nude Pictures Married England soccer hero Michael Owen told a reality star to send him 20 topless pictures – ­saying he would “judge” them. The former striker, 41, sent hundreds of texts to former Big Brother housemate Rebecca Jane, 36, including a string of explicit comments. Owen, a former Liverpool, Man United, Real Madrid, and Newcastle striker, has spoken publicly about his life and marriage, written an autobiography, and appeared in several TV adverts. He has a squeaky-clean image and his flirting with mum-of-two Rebecca will shock fans who look to him as a role model. Father-of-four Owen is said to have: Asked for nude pics, said “leave nothing to the imagination” – and told Rebecca he had viewed one image 65 times, suggested they meet up at the races, been intrigued by her physique – and asked if her breasts were “falsies”, bragged people think he’s “an angel” until they meet him according to The Mirror. Owen began following Rebecca on Twitter on March 18. She was on Big Brother in 2017, used to run a lovecheat detective agency, and is a regular guest on the ITV show This Morning. The pair exchanged messages and a pal said Rebecca, who has a law degree and is a trainee solicitor, was thrilled to be contacted by a childhood hero. However, the chat quickly turned sexual, particularly during April. On one trip away from home, he asked Rebecca for more pictures, saying: “Come on then, fire them through. It’s a long boring trip to London so I need something to do… leave nothing to the imagination. “And I’ll advise on the suitability of them for social media – hopefully, none of them are suitable.” After Rebecca obliged, he replied: “Tremendous by the way.” Pleading for more, he added: “Surely you’ve got pics saved up. I thought I was going to be judging dozens?” After another snap, he said: Well you went straight in there with a pic of your t**s so there’s no point taking a back step now. Hmmm. Not bad. Great t**. Definitely a no-go for social media. How about send me about 20? That’d be good. In another chat, Rebecca sent a photo of her in the bath – after he told her he was sitting in the lounge with his family. Rebecca’s friend said: She was thrilled when they started mess-aging. Flattered. Who wouldn’t be? It didn’t take long for messages to turn dirty. He was commenting on her pictures and said he’d looked at one in a see-through top 65 times. Rebecca knew she was flirting with a married man, but went along with it. She knows some people will think it’s bad, but she’s a single girl. She’s very outgoing, but she was surprised by how open he was. He was asking about her boobs, if they were real or ‘falsies’ and some of the messages were very explicit. In one early message Owen wrote: I love the way everyone says I’m an angel then within a minute of meeting me can’t believe how wrong they were. It is not the first time Rebecca has flirted with a sports star. In 2019 she exchanged “filthy” texts with rugby star Ben Foden, just days before he hooked up with Jackie Belanoff Smith, who he married two weeks later.