 [FILES] Pilgrims performing hajj  According to a press release signed by the Executive Secretary, Lagos State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, Mr. Rahman Ishola, the Hon. Commissioner would address the intending pilgrims at the Multi-Purpose Hall of Shamsi Adisa Thomas (SAT) Mosque, Old Secretariat, GRA, Ikeja, on Saturday, June 19, 2021. Ishola added that Prince Elegushi would address the implications of the Hajj cancellation by the Saudi Arabian authority and chart the next line of action to be taken. While appealing to the intending pilgrims not to be apprehensive about the development, the Board Secretary urged them to be punctual at the meeting, saying they would have the opportunity of hearing directly from the Hon. Commissioner who will be speaking on behalf of the State Government and also express their views on the way forward for the 2022 Hajj operation. The Board Secretary has confirmed that arrangements have been concluded for the administration of the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine to all intending pilgrims. The vaccination, according to Ishola,  has been fixed for Saturday and Sunday, June 19 and 20, 2021 at the SAT Mosque, Old Secretariat, GRA, Ikeja by 8.00 am daily and would be administered by officials of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) in collaboration with the State Ministry of Health. He urged all the intending pilgrims that took the first dose in March, this year, at the Adeyemi-Bero Auditorium,  Alausa, Ikeja, to ensure they present themselves for the second dose despite the Hajj cancellation, adding that the benefits of completing the doses cannot be over emphasized. It would be recalled that about 1,700 intending pilgrims including Ulamah (Clerics), Hajj Guides and Board staff were vaccinated with the AstraZeneca vaccine by the Lagos State Government at the Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja, in March, while others got theirs in other designated health centres across the state, in preparation for the cancelled 2021 Hajj exercise.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .