 Dapo Abiodun. Photo/TWITTER/dabiodunMFR  The ruling APC is also being alleged to have perfected plans to manipulate the process to ensure that only its candidates win the election into all the wards and councils.
  
Former spokesman of the Lagos State chapter of the African Development Party (ADP), Adelaja Adeoya said the coming council polls in the state would not be different from the previous ones where APC ensured that only its candidates were declared winners and in a situation where other party wins such candidate would be forced to defect to the ruling party almost immediately he or she is sworn into office.
 
To the opposition parties in the state, there is a slim or no chance for a competitive election because the ruling party is said to be controlling and funding the process, the reason why they seem to show no interest in the election. A source within the PDP said none of their members is willing to waste money to buy nomination form or spend on campaign because they don’t trust the process and neither were they comfortable with the infighting in their party.
 
Just as APC members are embittered over the primaries, some PDP members have described its primaries as a “farce”. Nothing is heard about the primaries of the other 12 parties that have expressed interest to participate in the election.
  
Though some members of the ruling APC are still challenging the credibility of the May 29, 2021 council primaries, claiming that they were not only robbed of electing their preferred candidates but dismissed the process of having democratic tenets expected of the party. They, therefore, called for the cancellation of the primaries. Although, observers are of the opinion that APC may not be blamed for not allowing fair competition in Lagos council elections but criticised the perennial internal wrangling that has polarised PDP members in the state. The power struggle between the State’s chairman, Eng. Ade Doherty and former Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George on who controls the party machinery has been identified as major albatross that has crippled the party for not only having impressive outings in the previous elections but playing the role of opposition to put Lagos State Government on its toes.
   
Multiple sources within the party said, “The face-off between Doherty and George must be resolved before the time lap for submission of candidate names to the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC), otherwise the umpire will be confused over which of the factions to recognise for the election.”
 
A PDP source recalled that in 2017, the chairperson of LASIEC, Justice Ayotunde Philips was confused over which of the PDP groups loyal to Senator Ali Modu-Sherif acclaimed national leadership and Senator Ahmed Markafi-led Caretaker Committee it would deal with. George’s faction, which was then loyal to Makarfi, conducted separate primaries while Mr. Segun Adewale, who also proclaimed himself as state chairman of the party, organised another primary. It was after the apex court affirmation of Makarfi as the authentic national chairman of the party that LASIEC recognised the nomination list submitted by George, but as of then, it was too late for the party to achieve success at the polls. There are fears that history may repeat itself as factions within the party vowed to present their candidates for the council election.  Others are Allied Peoples Movement (APM), National Rescue Movement (NRM), Labour Party (LP), New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), African Action Congress (AAC), BOOT, and Young Progressives Party (YPP).
 
It was gathered that the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) collected nomination forms but did not submit.  The petition seems more critical in Ikosi-Isheri LCDA where aggrieved members are threatening that the manner the primary was hijacked could lead to some members working against the party during the election. Contestants that purchased forms that were cleared to contest the chairmanship election in Ikosi- Isheri LCDA were, Bada Abolanle Sammy with form number 0030; Martins Anna Abiodun- 0083; Bashkirs Kareem A. – 0095; Omoba Adeyinka Oyediran- 0194; Fasasi Abideen O. – 0085; Balogun Wasiu Oluwatoyin – 0277; Oromidayo Balogun T. – 0264; Jegede Oyekunle S. -0195 and Kareem Bola Fausat – 0360. The stakeholders of Ikosi-Isheri felt that since the primary scheduled for May earlier this year could not hold due to the fracas that was visited on the people during the exercise, the committee should be invited back and do their job. They disclosed that after consultations, Mr. Jegede Oyekunle became the consensus candidate supported by the other six contestants. They said that since nine contestants bought the form and six out of them endorsed Jegede as a consensus candidate, the committee should either come and conduct the primary or hand the flag to Jegede as the candidate of the party.  Apathy In Ogun
OPPOSITION parties in Ogun State have also been saying not to be too enthusiastic about the upcoming local council polls scheduled for July 24.
 
Although the major opposition PDP said it would do its best to sensitise the electorate to vote appropriately, the party said it has no hope of winning any of the council chairmanship or councillorship positions in any of the 236 wards.
 
Executives of other fringe parties alleged that the ruling APC is collaborating with dissident members of their party, whom it encouraged to participate in the process to give the exercise a facelift.
 
But from the record made available by Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission (OGISEC), 12 political parties will contest for the chairmanship in the 20 local councils in the state.    To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .