Urges Buhari to initiate, transmit restructuring bill to National Assembly The pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, yesterday, lamented that Nigeria is bleeding in many parts as a result of terrorism and other vices bedeviling the country. The group said it would tour the Yorubaland and engage the traditional leaders in the region. Besides, the socio-political group has charged President Muhammadu Buhari to transmit a bill on restructuring to the National Assembly for legislative processes. It noted that Buhari should initiate the legal framework that would birth restructuring, having shown that “he has now favourably disposed to restructuring.” These were parts of the resolutions reached at the end of a meeting held at the country home of its leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, at Ogbo-Ijebu, Ogun State. The resolutions were contained in a communique signed by Afenifere’s National Publicity Secretary, Jare Ajayi. “In view of the challenging situations we face, Afenifere calls for, and indeed actually ready for meetings of stakeholders where the issues of restructuring, devolution of power and true federalism would be firmed up. The outcome of such deliberations is to be passed into law and be made operational immediately. “It is a matter of interest that the President said that he is now favourably disposed to restructuring. We urge him to send a bill to the National Assembly on it immediately after the planned deliberations by the stakeholders in the country. “Afenifere strongly holds the position that the above i.e. restructuring, should be done before the next elections in the country. “In the meantime, every community must be at alert to defend themselves from bandits who seem to have declared war on Nigeria,” the communiqué reads in part. Secretary-General of Afenifere, Chief Sola Ebiseni, who spoke with journalists at the end of the meeting, said: “Afenifere is going to tour Yorubaland and engage the traditional rulers. We are disturbed that restructuring is no longer popular in Yorubaland.” He emphasised that the Federal Government and those who still believe in the unity of the country should do something about the country, adding: “We are disappointed by the response of the Federal Government on the Ijaw demand. It would have been better if the President did not say anything.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .