Onyemachi Maduabuchi • Six injured in Ibadan community robbery The Lagos State Police Command has rearrested 34-year-old Onyemachi Maduabuchi, who escaped from the Owerri Correctional Centre after the jailbreak of April 5, 2021 in Imo State. The suspect allegedly fled Owerri that same day to his village, Fegge in Onitsha, Anambra State, to meet his mother, who later linked him up with his elder sister, Amarachi Maduabuchi, of Customs Bus Stop in Ijegun area of Lagos. The sister thereafter invited him to Lagos on April, 19, 2021. According to the Lagos State Police spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, the suspect was kept in the sister’s house, where she used to take him to church for special deliverance service. After the vigil on April 20, 2021, at Bride Assembly Church, Ijesha, Lagos, the suspect allegedly stole the SIM and the memory cards of a member (name withheld) of the church before he was eventually arrested and the stolen items recovered from him. During the course of police investigation, it was revealed that the suspect had been standing trial since 2009 for conspiracy, armed robbery and arson before Justice Nna Amadi of Ngbidi High Court 1, at Ngbidi, in Imo State. The suspect also confessed to the crime while the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, directed that the suspect be handed over to the Nigerian Correctional Service for further investigation and necessary action. MEANWHILE, a robbery gang raided Alaafia Estate, Orogun, Ibadan, Oyo State, and injured six persons in the process. It was gathered that the suspected robbers invaded the estate, dispossessing their victims of valuables running into millions of naira. The bandits were said to have earlier robbed a superintendent of police living in the estate during an attack on three flats. During the operation, the robbers reportedly carted away money, laptops, mobile phones and ATM cards. It was gathered that the robbers, who were armed with machetes, guns and other dangerous weapons, broke into the estate through the carnal linking the neighbourhood to Barika, Agbowo and Orogun. One of the victims, simply called Peter, reportedly sustained machete cuts on his left hand while his wife was beaten with machete. The bandits were said to have used Point of Sales (POS) machines, which they brought to make withdrawals and later went away with other ATM cards belonging to their victims as they were unable to transfer money due to network failure. Some of the residents said the robbers destroyed several properties at House 25, on the allegation that the inhabitants peeped to watch their activities through the window.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .