 [FILES] FRSC. PHOTO: Twitter<br />  The Sector Commander, FCT Command, FRSC, Mr Samuel Ochi, said this at the special national patrol in Abuja on Sunday. He said that drivers should apply caution to avoid the hazards of the wet season. Ochi said that the essence of the national patrol is for the public to know that driving in the rain is an issue that must be viewed with caution. According to him, special marshals are volunteers arm of FRSC and they gathered to observe the national patrol to enlighten the public on safety tips on driving. “National patrol is an opportunity to get back to the society through public enlightenment and level of enforcement. “Special marshals are out within the central area to do some level of corrections by enlightening the public realising that we have entered the rainy season. “We want to call for special driving techniques on the highway during this period. “This is important so that Nigerians will get to understand that when the rainy season sets in, there are some precautions we need to take for safety,” he said. Ochi said that drivers needed to know that vehicles that are not road worthy during the rainy season are most likely to have drags. “You must have your wipers on and lightening well equiped; a driver needs to know that the speed used when there is no rain is not the same to use in the rain. “Maximum speed limit is required when it is raining. We call it common sense speed limit. “This is important so you do not run into another man’s vehicle,” he said. The FRSC boss urged those who have issues with visions to park their vehicles off the road during the rain. A Member, House of Representatives, Zango Kataf, Jaba Federal Constituency, Kaduna State, Rep. Amos Magaji, said that the board was going to move for the strengthening, equipping and encouraging the FRSC to perform well. Magaji, also a member, House Committee on Road Safety and Special Marshal, called Nigerians and people in high positions to join hands with FRSC in ensuring safety of lives and property on the road. “We want to encourage them to join our patrol, the special marshals to move this voluntary arm of FRSC forward,” he said. The Special Marshal, State Coordinator, Mr Sanni Adisa, advised motorists against speeding and overloading during the rainy season. Adisa said that the monthly national patrol is a period to educate and sensitise, enforce and preach safety on Nigeria roads, especially during the rainy season. “I will like to advise them to avoid speeding, use of phone while driving and to avoid distraction, obstruction on the road, overtaking and overloading,” he advised.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .