Jeff Bezos | Image: The New York Times/Blue Origin A petition calling for billionaire Amazon founder Jeff Bezos to be denied re-entry to Earth following his spaceflight next month has garnered thousands of signatures online. The Change.org petition, as of the time of this report, has gained over 12,000 signatures since it was created last week. Titled “Petition To Not Allow Jeff Bezos Re-Entry To Earth,” the petition jokingly states that “the fate of humanity is in your hands.” The petition alleges that Bezos is actually Lex Luthor (a fictional supervillain and the archenemy of Superman), who is “disguised as the supposed owner of a super successful online retail store. However, he’s actually an evil overlord hellbent on global domination. We’ve known this for years.” It also claims that Bezos “worked with the Epsteins and the Knights Templar, as well as the Free Masons to gain control over the whole world. He’s also in bed with the flat earth deniers; it’s the only way they’ll allow him to leave the atmosphere. Meanwhile, our government stands by and lets it happen.” “This may be our last chance before they enable the 5G microchips and perform a mass takeover,” the petition concluded. Earlier this month, Bezos announced on his Instagram page that he’ll be boarding a sub-orbital flight on Blue Origin’s New Shepard spacecraft on July 20 with his brother Mark and two mystery auction winners — the first of whom won their seat for a whopping $28 million USD last week. The proceeds of the auction, save for a 6 percent auctioneers commission, will go towards Blue Origin’s STEM-education foundation Club for the Future.   A post shared by Jeff Bezos (@jeffbezos)  Ascending from a desert in western Texas, an autonomous rocket will propel the four passengers above the line that defines the boundary between Earth and outer space. But the petition’s organizer, Jose Ortiz, wants to extend Bezos’ trip to space indefinitely. Some who have signed the petition have also proposed that Bezos take Tesla’s Elon Musk and Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg along for the ride.