 Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide  The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has chided South East governors over their condemnation of IPOB and Eastern Security Network (ESN), insisting that the governors are too small to decide for Ndigbo on Biafra. Governors and some leaders of the South East, at their meeting in Enugu last Sunday, had disowned the activities of IPOB and its security network, ESN. But reacting to the development via a statement in Enugu, IPOB’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, who did not express surprise at the stance of the governors, stated that it was the same people that proscribed them before the Federal Government tagged them terrorists. Powerful said: “The purported statement by these shameless political generals without foot soldiers has only further exposed them as Caliphate boot-lickers. They know too well that they have since lost grip of the masses; hence their desperation to regain the trust of their paymasters. They only publicly disowned IPOB, thinking that doing so will make them regain the trust and favour of the Caliphate. “The governors, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and the handful traitors masquerading as the Igbo political elite should wake up to the realities that they have since lost the confidence of the people. They are rattled by the unflinching support and loyalty of the masses to IPOB.” He slammed the South East leaders for calling IPOB and ESN, which they had disowned, to accept the calls for peaceful negotiations. “What hypocrisy,” he added. MEANWHILE, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Maj-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, has said that the army will continue to tackle individuals and groups taking arms against the state. During an operational visit to 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Enugu, yesterday, Yahaya said the operational thrust followed the mandate of President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that all activities of insurgents, terrorists, criminals, hoodlums and vandals were decisively dealt with. He stated that the presidential mandate was to restore peace to all parts of the country, to enable Nigerians undertake their genuine businesses unhindered. The COAS commended the 82 Division, saying it was doing well with regard to the presidential directive, adding that his visit was to support them and ensure total victory against all armed and destructive enemies of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .