 Ahmad Lawan  President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, at the weekend, lamented that insecurity was taking a toll on the education of the younger generations. He, therefore, challenged stakeholders in the Nigerian project to reverse the ugly situation before education becomes anathema, especially in the North. Lawan made the appeal while fielding questions from reporters at the first solo exhibition of paintings and photographs by Stephen Binos in Adamawa State. In a statement issued by his media office, the Senate President regretted the frequent kidnapping of school children, particularly the girl child. His words: “In northern Nigeria, education has always been a problem and it is getting worse with this kind of abduction of students either in Islamiya school or normal secondary schools or even in tertiary institutions as it happened in Afaka in Kaduna State. “I believe we should continue to fight this insurgency and banditry for our country to make progress.” The nation’s number three citizen assured Nigerians that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration with the support of the National Assembly would restore normalcy in the land. He sought the cooperation of all tiers of government to fast-track the dream. Lawal continued: “I want to assure everyone that the Muhammadu Bihari’s APC administration will continue to work hard to bring back security to this country. “It is a challenge, but I believe that it is for all of us – the federal, state and of course the local governments and all the communities and ethnic groups across the country. IN a related development, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Committee of Imams Initiative (CFII) has canvassed the inclusion of religious leaders in the nation’s security architecture to restore orderliness in the country. Its Chairman, Dr. Tajuddeen Adigun, made the appeal at the weekend during the body’s 17th Extraordinary Dawrah (conference) in Abuja. He observed at the event, themed “Unity of Imams as a forte to the Ummah and secured nation”, that the Islamic clerics were part of those who could make the nation peaceful, insisting they have more obedient followers and listeners than politicians. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .