 Sharada  Former Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Broadcast Media and Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on National Security and Intelligence, Ibrahim Sharada, has been suspended from the All Progressives Congress (APC). The member representing Kano Municipality Federal Constituency was suspended from all party activities both in the national, state and council level for the next one year. In a letter of suspension released yesterday, Sharada was accused of involving in anti-party activity, political high handedness and perpetrating gross violation of party policies in the state. The statement signed by APC Chairman, Abdullahi Sharada, said that Sharada was completely banned from the affairs of the APC at the ward level for one year. “The APC has been receiving complaints from different quarters. So, after series of meetings, the executive committee resolved that he should be suspended from the party,” the statement reads in part. HOWEVER, the Chairman of Buhari Support Organisation (BSO), Kano Chapter, Shehu Dalhatu, has appealed to President Buhari and the party’s Caretaker Committee Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, to look into the revalidation exercise in the state, which was reportedly marred by irregularity and discrimination. He said the action was capable of sabotaging the popularity of the party in the next general election.  Dalhatu was speaking against the backdrop of the alleged injustice and discrimination against Kano APC members in the BSO, who recently concluded registration exercise in the state. He stated that a significant number of BSO and aggrieved members of the party from various local councils were unjustly excluded from the exercise, noting that the number of party members reportedly recorded in the exercise was contentious and unacceptable. Urging the chairman to urgently order a credible team to conduct a fresh registration and work with the organisation and other aggrieved party members to register their members, he pointed out that for members of the registration committee lamented the exclusion of serving House of Representatives members and former personal assistant to the President.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .