Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has threatened to detain private aircraft whose owners are yet to validate their documentations in line with the Federal Government’s revalidation policy. The Public Relations Officer, NSC, Deputy Controller, Joseph Attah, who issued the warning yesterday, said only six private aircraft owners have responded so far, while the Customs would not hesitate to sanction the erring ones come July 6, 2021. “With two weeks into the 30-day revalidation period, only six private aircraft have responded to our invitation, necessitating this update and reminder to those who have not responded to do so, in other to avoid possible detention of their aircraft. “The service believes that owners of private aircraft are highly placed individuals who will be willing to comply with extant laws of the land governing the importation of the aircraft they owned”, he stated. Attah said the compliance includes payment of appropriate duties and taxes. “As an agency of government responsible for enforcement of laws governing import and exports in Nigeria, NCS will not hesitate to evoke appropriate sanctions on any defaulting private aircraft owner, immediately after the expiration of the revalidation period on Tuesday, 6th July, 2021,” According to him, documents sought for verification include; NCAA flight operations compliance certificate; NCAA maintenance compliance certificate; NCAA permit for non-commercial flight and temporary import permit, where applicable. He noted that the ongoing verification is not intended to inconvenient any owner of private aircraft, as such, individuals or his or her representative can come with documents for verification. “What is important to the nation is to ensure that all aircraft privately owned were properly reported and cleared with appropriate taxes paid,” he stated. Attah however noted that “the essence of the verification exercise is to unearth certain things that we have been suspecting. We are aware some people brought in their aircraft under temporary importation arrangement, and some of them already have their period of temporary importation expired, some of them have an illegal review.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .