NOVAK Djokovic defeated 4/6, 6/1, 6/2, 6/2 on Centre Court but Stefan Tsitsipas of Greece suffered an upset loss to American Frances Tiafoe, 6-4, 6/4, 6/3, before 6000 spectators yesterday on the (Millennium) Court One. Djokovic led 40-15 on his serve but was deuced and conceded the eighth game for 4-4. Draper held and took the set 6/4 on a break of Djokovic’s serve.  The lanky southpaw held to lead 1-0 in the second set but his opponent leveled at love. It was a pattern for the rest of the match. Draper struggled to hold serves and Djokovic winning his service games quickly. This yielded a service break in the third game after which Djokovic screamed in jubilation. Djokovic took the seventh game on a service break serve and clinched the eighth game at love for 6/2. Djokovic broke serve after a long third game of the fourth set and extended the lead to 3-1. After the break to lead 4-1, Djokovic clenched his fist in his new penchant for emotional display. The Serb was taken to deuce before clinching the sixth game on his 22nd ace of the match. He sealed the set and match with another unreturned serve. Tiafoe broke Tsitsipas and held to lead 3-1. The margin remained till the end of the first set 6/4. A single break of Tsitsipas’ serve gave the American the second set 6/4. Tsitsipas started the third set by charging the net and lost first two points on Tiafoe’s service return winners.  The Greek missed an approach volley to 15-40 and conceded the break. Tiafoe took his serve to lead 2-0 and battled through four advantages to lead 3-1. Although the Greek star reduced the tally, Tiafoe prevailed in another long game to lead 4-2 and saved two break points to hold for 5-3. Serving to save the match, Tsitsipas fell behind 0-30 on two service return winners. After two let serves on the third point, Tiafoe charged the net and Tsitsipas missed a passing shot to face 15-40 match point. He saved one match point but missed a backhand to lose the game, set and match.
Frances Tiafoe is coached by Wayne Ferreira of South Africa. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .