After careful evaluation of government guidelines and consultation with customers, the organisers have made the decision to move the dates and location of Future Energy Series: Africa 2021 (www.FutureEnergySeriesAfrica.com). Originally scheduled from 1-4 November in Cape Town, South Africa, the event will now take place in Dubai (United Arab Emirates) on 8-11 November 2021 in the Madinat Jumeirah alongside the 27th edition of Africa Oil Week.  Simon Ford, Portfolio Director at Hyve Group plc said: “Delivering the event to the highest standard and ensuring the safety and wellbeing of our attendees has always been our top priority. We believe that hosting the 2021 edition in Dubai will enable us to ensure that the event experience is both safe and premium for our customers.” He added: “Though we are very disappointed not to be able to host our event in Cape Town this year, we believe that Dubai is the next best location. The country has demonstrated exceptional progress in its vaccination programme and has also led the way in safely reopening successful, large-scale international events that attracted business travellers from more than 150 countries. This is consequently increasing business confidence and accelerating the revival of all major sectors in the country. As such, in order to allow our customers ample time to make travel arrangements, we have made the decision to move the dates and location – we are confident that Dubai will be a safe and highly desirable destination to host both the Future Energy Series: Africa and the 27th edition of Africa Oil Week.” The organisers have vowed that despite the location change, Future Energy Series: Africa will be the must-attend event with Africa at its core, a platform dedicated to fostering relationships, and promoting a sustainable energy transition in Africa. An event that will drive thought leadership, catalyse innovation and stimulate deal-making, attracting a uniquely senior global delegate pool whilst maintaining a distinctively African focus. The organised have confirmed the participation of the leading Government Ministers and regulatory bodies from across Africa, as well as senior representatives from strategic partner organisations including AFUR, EITI and REEEP, confirming the event’s position as the gathering shaping the future of African energy. Future Energy Series: Africa will take place in accordance with the latest health & safety and government guidance and will reunite industry leaders with a shared vision of driving green economies and ensuring universal power access for the continent. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Future Energy Series: Africa (Hyve Group). For more information, please contact:
On behalf of Future Energy Series: Africa
Abbie Coonan
Email: abbie.coonan@hyve.group About Future Energy Series: Africa:
The vision of FESA is to drive green economies to ensure universal power access for the African continent. The event is the deal-making and project origination platform of choice for the continent’s most influential low-carbon energy stakeholders. FESA takes an Africa-centric approach to the energy transition, which prioritises sustainable development and solving the continental power deficit. It will run alongside Africa Oil Week, 8-11 November 2021 in Dubai, UAE. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .