 A Long March-2F carrier rocket, carrying the Shenzhou-12 spacecraft and a crew of three astronauts, lifts off from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Centre in the Gobi desert in northwest China on June 17, 2021, the first crewed mission to China’s new space station. (Photo by GREG BAKER / AFP)  The trio launched on a Long March-2F rocket for the Tiangong station, where they will spend three months, in a much-anticipated blast-off broadcast live on state TV. Lift-off happened at 9:22 am (0122 GMT) from the Jiuquan launch centre in northwest China’s Gobi desert, with the rocket rising in clouds of smoke against a blue sky. After about 10 minutes it reached orbit and the space craft separated from the rocket, to loud applause in the control room among rows of blue-suited engineers. State broadcaster CCTV showed a live feed from inside the spacecraft, with the three astronauts lifting their helmet visors and one smiling and waving at the camera. Another floated a pen just off his lap in zero-gravity as he browsed the flight manual. Cameras outside the craft broadcast live images of the Earth below. “According to reports from the Beijing aerospace control centre, the Long March-2F rocket has sent the Shenzhou-12 manned spacecraft to the preset orbit,” said Zhang Zhifen, director of the Jiuquan satellite launch centre. “The solar panels unfolded successfully and now we declare the Shenzhou-12 mission a complete success.” At a ceremony before blastoff, the three astronauts, already wearing their space suits, greeted a crowd of supporters. Space workers and their families had gathered for the ceremony and sang the patriotic song “Without the Chinese Communist Party, there would be no new China”, waving Chinese flags and flowers. The mission’s commander is Nie Haisheng, a decorated air force pilot in the People’s Liberation Army who has already participated in two space missions. The two other members are also members of the military. Space life Their Shenzhou-12 spacecraft will dock with the Tianhe main section of the space station, which was placed in orbit on April 29. The module has separate living spaces for each of them, a treadmill for exercise, and a communication centre for emails and video calls with ground control. It is China’s first crewed mission in nearly five years. The launch represents a matter of huge prestige in China, as Beijing prepares to mark the 100th anniversary of the ruling Communist Party on July 1 with a massive propaganda campaign. To prepare for the mission, the crew has undergone more than 6,000 hours of training, including hundreds of underwater somersaults in full space gear. The Chinese space agency is planing a total of 11 launches through to the end of next year, including three more manned missions which will deliver two lab modules to expand the 70-tonne station, and supplies and crew members. The first crew will test and maintain the systems onboard, conduct spacewalks and undertake scientific experiments. China’s space ambitions have been fuelled in part by a US ban on its astronauts on the International Space Station, a collaboration between the United States, Russia, Canada, Europe and Japan. It is due for retirement after 2024, even though NASA said it could potentially remain functional beyond 2028. Tiangong will be much smaller than the ISS, and is expected to have a lifespan of at least 10 years.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .