 [FILES] Arewa Consultative Forum  (ACF)  Northern leaders under the aegis of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has said that the North will not be part of the agitation for the division of Nigeria as canvassed by Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB) and South West youths, led by Sunday Igboho. They, however, assured the southerners in the north of their safety in a united Nigeria. ACF Chairman, Audu Ogbe, and Secretary-General, Murtala Aliyu, at the opening of the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the forum yesterday, lamented the security challenges in the country, agitation for new republics and the growing poverty in the country. Ogbe said the North would fight for the unity of the country, irrespective of the growing agitations in the South East and South West. According to him, what Nigerians need is to synergise and fight insecurity. The Arewa leaders said the current insecurity in the country destroyed several lives and property in the country, while also negatively affecting the economy. Ogbeh, who read the communiqué at the end of the meeting, said: “Given the realities of the time over issues of security, food scarcity and drug abuse, members of the forum should adopt more proactive measures in addressing problems facing the North and the nation. “The forum expressed satisfaction with the recent stance of the Southeast leaders and governors on the violent agitation for secession from Nigeria by IPOB and Eastern Security Network (ESN).” SIMILARLY, Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State has underscored the need for all hands to be on deck to tackle the burgeoning criminality in the country. The governor spoke at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, while fielding questions from reporters, after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday night on the security situation in his state. Bagudu said he briefed Buhari on the attack on Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri, by bandits. He lauded the security agencies for facilitating the rescue of some pupils and teachers. Reiterating the need for support to security operatives to end the security challenges across the country, he said the President restated his directive to deal with bad eggs, even as he revealed that more governors were disposed to mobilise against criminal elements in the coming days. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .