T-Pain From discovering self to attempting to get away from projections and making a life of uneventful pasts, this week sure had stories that got our attention. We saw people acknowledge their abilities to rise out of their fears and stories that were quite shocking. Catch up on the stories that made headlines the previous week: Callouts
Everyone knows that T-Pain is the king of autotunes. Now, what we did not know is, T-Pain revealed that he suffered a four year-long depression after a conversation with Usher about his use of Auto-Tune in 2013. T-Pain, whose name is Faheem Rasheed Najm, narrated that he was sleeping when a flight attendant woke him up and told him that Usher wanted to speak with him. The singer recalled that Usher, his friend, told him that he “really f***ed up music for real singers” because of his Auto-Tune leading to his depressive state. We guess the lesson is, be mindful of how you communicate your feelings. Pay up
A Zambian news presenter, Kabinda Kalimina, lost his cool and went on a rant demanding his unpaid salary during a live news broadcast on Saturday night. Kalimina first gave a roundup of the top stories, then he went off-script and demanded his salary as well as the salaries of his coworkers who were yet to be paid. In a viral video, he said in part, “Away from the news, ladies and gentlemen, we are human beings. We have to get paid. Unfortunately, on KBN we haven’t been paid,” in a video clip of the broadcast which has gone viral on social media. KBN TV has since expressed shock while describing his actions as “drunken behaviour”. Eucharia Anunobi. | Image: Instagram/euchariaanunobi The rejected stone
Eucharia Anunobi took to her Instagram page to recount how her father refused to send her to school because she was a girl child. The veteran actress turned preacher, who recently bagged a PhD in Christian Education and Ministerial Arts, while narrating her ordeal said she is “still in awe of God. According to Anunobi, her father said that the female gender was “useless to him and can’t carry his name anywhere”. Despite the challenge, Anunobi turned out to be an actress, a former beauty queen, a preacher and one who has “engraved her father’s name on the map of the world and still carving it and will keep carving it until the return of Jesus Christ.” Bitcoin wahala
Two South African brothers shocked the crypto space after they disappeared with $2.2 billion worth of bitcoin from clients. Trouble began after one of the brothers and Africrypt chief operating officer, Ameer Cajee, told their clients that their platform had been hacked and didn’t want the clients to report to authorities while they sorted it out. Immediately they sent this, the investors hired a group of Hanekon Attorneys to investigate the matter. At the moment, Ameer and his brother, Raees, have absconded and the investigative company has alerted other exchanges just in case they attempt to convert the coins. Their website is also down. Oh well… Escaping royal life
Fans of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle got a first look at the teaser of the couple’s life story. The film, “Harry & Meghan: Escaping the Palace” will follow the most recent chapter in the couple’s life as they make the tough decision to step back from royal life and relocate their family. The trailer sees Harry (Jordan Dean) console Meghan (Sydney Morton) and discuss her treatment at the hands of the press, saying: ‘I see you literally being hounded to death and I’m helpless to stop it.’ Meghan replies: ‘I am the person who is strong and gets things right. I can’t lose you.’ Time will tell how will the royal family will react.