 A security personnel stands next to a damaged vehicle at the site of an explosion in Kabul on June 3, 2021, after at least four people were killed and four others injured when a minibus was hit by an explosion in Kabul, according to police, in the latest attack on commuters in the Afghan capital. (Photo by Zakeria HASHIMI / AFP)  The attack occurred on Saturday evening in the western province of Badghis, raising fears of fresh violence in the months ahead as the US military continues to pull out its last remaining troops from the country. No group has claimed responsibility for the blast but Badghis governor Hessamuddin Shams accused the Taliban of planting the bomb. Another official from the province, Khodadad Tayeb, confirmed the toll and said that the bus fell into a valley after it was hit by the bomb. Saturday’s attack came after a series of blasts targeted passenger buses in Kabul this week. The jihadist Islamic State claimed two back-to-back attacks on buses in Kabul. Violence has soared in recent weeks as government forces and the Taliban clash in near-daily battles across the rugged countryside, with the militants appearing to focus on capturing new territory and battering checkpoints and bases near Kabul. The Taliban said on Saturday that they have “captured the district of Deh Yak” in the province of Ghazni, about 150 kilometres south of Kabul. The authorities said they had only “relocated” their forces from the area. Ghazni is strategically located on the main road from Kabul to Kandahar, the former bastion of the Taliban in the south. The province sees regular fighting between the two warring sides. In 2018, the Taliban briefly seized the provincial capital Ghazni, which has the same name as the province, in an all-out attack that left several government buildings torched and destroyed. The surge in violence across Afghanistan comes as the US military continues to withdraw its remaining 2,500 troops from Afghanistan. President Joe Biden has ordered the military to complete the pullout by the 20th anniversary of the September 11 attacks. But as the Americans pack up, experts fear Afghanistan will remain home to a number of jihadist groups.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .