World bank building Say nation now a disputed project with questionable sovereignty 
Prominent statesmen and leaders of thought yesterday warned the international community against lending the Nigerian Government loans, stating that Nigeria is now a country with questionable sovereignty. The Nigerians, numbering 129, were signatories to the Constitutional Force Majeure (CFM) declared on December 16 2020 on the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria. Notable among the leaders are former Military Vice President of Nigeria, Commodore Ebitu Ukiwe (rtd), former Governor of Plateau State, Jonah Jang, renowned historian and Second Republic member of the Senate, Banji Akintoye; former President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo; respected varsity don, Prof. Yusuf Turaki and 124 others. In a four-paragraph statement, the prominent Nigerians warned the World Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF), United Nations (UN), African Union (AU), European Union (EU), United States (U.S.), French, Chinese and British Governments to cease lending loans to the Nigerian government, stressing that borrowing a “disputed project” loan can only be considered an act of negligence. The statement, which was made available to journalists by Chairman of NINAS Steering Committee, Otunba Folashade Olukoya, on behalf of the NINAS secretariat, reads: “News reaching the Nigerian Indigenous Nationalities Alliance for Self-Determination (NINAS) says that the Nigerian government has taken on further loans. “Again, we remind the international community that Nigeria is now a disputed project. This was articulated in our press conference of December 16, 2020, when we declared Constitutional Force Majeure. “Subsequent activities as articulated at the press conferences of March 17, 2021 and April 17, 2021 emphasise that Nigeria remains a disputed project. Knowing this and lending to a disputed project can only be considered negligence. “For the avoidance of doubt, the indigenous nations will not, and cannot be expected to repay such loans or allow their assets to be used as collateral to offset the loans.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .