The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Sokoto State Command, says it arrested  83 suspects of drug abuse  from January to June in the state. Mr Abdul Abdullahi, NDLEA Commander in Sokoto State, gave the figures while addressing a news conference on the commemoration of the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Drug Trafficking. Abdullahi said the command in the period in review, had achieved the seizure of 51.688 kilogrammes of Cannabis, 8.891 kilogrammes of psychotropic substance and 3.21 litres of Codeine syrup. “In the area of rehabilitation, a total of 45 clients were rehabilitated and counselled within the period in review,” he said. The commander also said that the 2021 International Day Against Drug celebration in Nigeria remained  very unique. “This is in the sense that a new National Drug Control Master Plan 2021-2025 was unveiled by President Muhammadu Buhari and standard policy and practice guidelines for NDLEA counselors was also inaugurated. “Moreover, the 2021 theme, “Share Facts on Drugs. Save lives” underscores the importance of factual information in the overall thrust against controlled substances. “The intensification of efforts against the menace of illicit drugs reminds us all of the imperative to play our traditional roles as parents or community leaders or religious leaders to ensure healthy living and a safer community in a balanced environment,” he said. Abdullahi further said that the theme for this year specifically called on the people to pay attention, learn more, share correct information on illicit drugs and take appropriate action to ensure a safer society. He solicited public engagement to end the trend of drug abuse and illicit trafficking, while appreciating the state government’s support to the command. Abdullahi further called on the government to fast-track the formation of state Drug Abuse Control Committee to align with the National Drug Control Master Plan (NDCMP) to access the benefits therein. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .