 Tinubu  The Olubadan expressed his support while receiving members of the Tinubu Vanguard, a support group for Tinubu’s residency project in Ibadan on Saturday. A statement by Dr. Johnny Benjamin, The Director-General of Tinubu Vanguard, Dr Johnny Benjamin, said this in a statement on Saturday. Olubadan described Tinubu as a good man whose stewardship as president would consolidate on the progressive agenda of the APC and propel Nigeria to the path of economic prosperity and sustainable development. “Tinubu is a good man and I will do everything within my power to support his candidacy for the 2023 presidential poll,” he said. The director-general said that representatives of Tinubu Vanguard were at the palace to intimate the Ibadan paramount ruler of their intention to deliver a Tinubu presidency in 2023 and to solicit his royal blessings. Benjamin added that the group was committed to ensuring that the Tinubu presidential mandate was actualised in the interest of national unity and cohesion. Meanwhile, Tinubu Vanguard has sent congratulatory messages to Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of the House of Representatives and Babjide Sanwoolu, Governor of Lagos on their birthdays. Benjamin commended both celebrants for their dedication to delivering democratic dividends to Nigerians in their respective positions “Sanwoolu’s programmes and policies are people-oriented and we are proud of his achievements as governor in charge of a complex state like Lagos. “As for the Speaker, his commitment to hard work and his pragmatic leadership style has set him apart as a quintessential statesman. “We wish both of their long life and prosperity, as they continue to support the delivery of good governance in their different capacities,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Sanwoolu and Gbajabiamila celebrated their birthdays on Friday, June 25. The Speaker turned 59 while Sanwoolu celebrated his 56th birthday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .