Adult Choir ministering during a combined service Colossians 1:16, “For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, and for him.” From the biblical concept, dominion implies supreme authority, sovereignty, and absolute ownership of something, while mighty is a generic name for all the forces, players, principalities, powers, and all the agents of kingdom of darkness. God is the Almighty; hence He has control and authority over them all. He is the Creator of everything in heaven, earth and beneath the earth. He controls all the powers because all were created for His pleasure. All the actions of all other beings in heaven and earth are at His permission. That is why the Bible says in Psalm 62:11; Ps 62:11, God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God. It is by His ownership of power He created all things through the spoken Word. All the powers, all humans, all the kingdoms and forces are His creations. As a result of the fact that He created all, He has dominion over them all. In Creation, He made man and gave him the power of dominion over everything under the heaven. The Bible makes clear in Genesis 1:26-28 saying, 26 “And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. 27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them. 28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.” God that has power and dominion over everything created man in His own image and likeness, empowering same to have dominion over everything that He created, and at the same time giving man the power of sovereignty over the earth. Man is God’s representative on earth and Who has equally empowered man to act on His behalf here on earth. That is why it is clearly emphasised in Luke 10:19 thus: Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt you. The serpents, scorpions, and powers of the enemy are the representation of the kingdom of darkness implying the mighty. Having empowered man, we equally have dominion over them. Hence, we can step upon them and nothing harmful will happen to us. Man is in charge on this earth. God has given us charge over the earth; hence we are in control. The Bible says in Psalm 115:16, “The heaven, even the heavens, are the Lord’s: but the earth hath he given to the children of men.” By Divine permission and empowerment, man is in total control of the earth. The forces and powers therein are under his subjection. When we pray to God, it is an indication the forces on earth are overwhelming; hence the need for Divine intervention. This is the case when the Israelites were under bondage in Egypt. They called on God and intervention came. By the time they misbehaved again while in the Promised Land, enemies tormented them and they cried again to God for help. They keep on reminding God of the intervention that brought them out of Egypt, as well as His help, even in the Promised Land. When the enemies attacked them and took away their farm crops, God empowered even a woman to arise to lead deliverance wars and victory was granted. They had dominion over their enemies as the Bible says in Judges 5:13, Then he made him that remaineth have dominion over the nobles among the people: the Lord made me have dominion over the mighty. As God has dominion over the mighty, He accordingly empowers His chosen and faithful servants, obedient children to dominate and subdue the mighty, and the enemies of the gospel. It is written in Matthew 16:19, “And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.” We have the keys of the kingdom to deal with the kingdom of darkness. At all times, we wear faith and righteousness as breast plate and stand in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ to rain terror and brimstone on the kingdom of darkness. It is important to know that you have both power and dominion over the mighty and over all the powers of darkness. You reading this message clearly understand that the kingdoms of darkness are under your feet, and you have the capacity to subdue them. God has given all His children the keys of the kingdom to bind whatever they do not want and to loosen and command to their favour whatever they are in need of. However, let it sink into your subconscious that you can only do that, if you are born again and has accepted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Saviour and has rescued yourself from all sinful acts. You cannot be living in sin and be able to bind the devil. That will be tantamount to a kingdom divided against itself; hence the kingdom will not stand. You must reject the devil and all his works. It is only then you will be able to utilise the keys of the kingdom to have dominion over the mighty, as God has given us the power. Testimony Of The Lord’s Doing
Wow! A Business Of N4, 400 Made Me A Millionaire
MY name is brother Sylvester Chosen Testimony. I am grateful to God for making me a Chosen. I joined this movement in 2005 during the programme, “The Beginning of Exodus.” I am one of the products of the Exodus. Brethren, something happened that day that made me to become a Chosen. There was a heavy rainfall and the breeze carried the roof of the building where we were staying. In fact, we were more than two thousand and I was expecting that the breeze would tore down the building and kill many people. But to the glory of God, all of us escaped. It was only one person that got minor injury, but nobody died in the incident and that power made me fear The God of Chosen. There was a time such a thing happened to a particular church somewhere else, and more than 200 people died, but here in the Chosen, nobody died. The God of Chosen is so great! Moreover, I was having only N26, 000 home and abroad. The Pastor called for pledges one certain day and encouraged us to pledge for us to be blessed. I stood up to pledge N20, 000 and when I came on Wednesday to pay the amount, they pursued me out of the old auditorium (venue of the payment). But I told God I would not be angry because of anybody in this church. I went out, carried a plastic chair and sat down and told myself anytime there was a chance I would go in and pay the pledge. Suddenly, I saw somebody that was walking very fast and something told me this was our Pastor and I followed him. As he was about to enter into his car, I shouted daddy, daddy. He stopped and said I should come. He asked “from where?” and I replied that I was from Abuja. He said I should come and as I got to him, he brought out one of his fingers and touched my forehead and said, “God of Chosen bless him in Jesus name.” I was so happy, I rejoiced and returned to my seat. It did not take up to 10 minutes, when the person that chased me out of the old auditorium came to apologise to me that he was sorry for the insult. I said, ‘Brother, don’t you know that God has used you to bless me? If I had paid the pledge immediately, I would not have seen our Pastor.” Eventually, l paid my pledge of N20, 000 and I was left with N6, 000, because of happiness that G.O prayed for me. I was led to buy two seats at N1, 600 and donated to the church. So, I was left with just N4, 400, with which I started a business. I went to Ladipo Market, where I used to buy phones, but l only succeeded in buying three phones. Three days later, I sold the three phones and I returned to Ladipo and bought six phones. Two days after, I sold the six phones and returned to Ladipo and bought 12 phones. Brethren, that was all I knew. Today, I am happy to testify that I am now a millionaire. Praise the Lord! God of Chosen is so great. Obedience brings blessing. He has really blessed me. I pray for the G.O, his family and all the Chosen worldwide. Heaven at last in Jesus name!  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .