Netflix And Chills: Films To Look Out For In July Wondering what July would be like on Netflix, it is filled with new film releases and the continuation of some of your favourite films. Below are some films to look out for in July. Cat People: Netflix Original Documentaries – 7/7/2021   Dogs may get credit for being humanity’s best friend, but to many people, cats are just as much our loyal partners, even though if you asked cats they might not admit it! CAT PEOPLE explores our fascinating relationship with cats through the lens of some of the most remarkable and surprising “cat people” in the world, defying the negative stereotypes of what it means to be a cat person while revealing the fundamental truths of what it means to have deep bonds with these fiercely independent, mysterious creatures. Sanitation Day – 7/21/2021
When a man is brutally murdered, 4 suspects emerge. The Police have till 10 AM to solve the case before the scene becomes untenable. This is a race against the clock. Everyone is a suspect, and everyone is guilty of something and it may not be murder. Dogs: Season 2 – Netflix Original Documentaries – 7/7/2021   Our beloved best friends are back! Dogs return to explore the powerful bond between humans and dogs in four new intimate, heartwarming episodes. Whether it’s the story of an astronaut, a priest, a military contractor, or the handler of a legendary university mascot, Dogs shows us how these beautiful animals occupy the same place in all of our hearts — one reserved not just for pets, but for family. Finding Hubby – 7/9/2021
Finding Hubby follows the adventures of 35-year-old Oyin Clegg and her friends Toke and Gloria as they kiss the many frogs in the quest to find their prince. In the process, they are forced to ask important questions about their friendship, love, and life ultimately asking – Finding Hubby or Finding Happy? Heist – Netflix Original Documentaries – 7/14/2021   Millions in stolen cash. Missing luxury bourbon. Watch ordinary people almost get away with these extraordinary heists in this true-crime series. RattleSnake – The Ahanna Story – 7/2/2021
After Ahanna Okolo’s life as he knows it ends, he decides to steal the life he always wanted. He has just one rule – no bloodshed. He assembles a group of men with various skills, carrying out a series of spectacular heists, always ten steps ahead of the police. However, when their biggest heist takes an unexpectedly deadly turn, the gang suddenly finds themselves with bitter enemies on both sides of the law. Never Have I Ever: Season 2 – Netflix Original Series – 7/15/2021   A new love life, a new classmate, and new reasons to bicker with mom give Devi plenty more ways to make courageous moves… and questionable decisions. 2 Weeks in Lagos – 7/16/2021
2 Weeks in Lagos is a turbulent and thrilling journey into the lives of Ejikeme and Lola. Their lives collide when investment banker Ejikeme comes home from the United States with Lola’s brother Charlie to invest in Nigerian businesses. Upon meeting Lola, Ejikeme falls in love with her and must defy his parents’ plan to marry him to the daughter of a wealthy politician. 2 Weeks in Lagos captures the excitement, vibrancy, and complexity of everyday life in Lagos, a dynamic city where anything is possible in 2 Weeks. The Last Letter From Your Lover – Netflix Film – 7/23/2021   After finding a trove of love letters from the 1960s, a journalist sets out to solve the mystery of a secret affair. Based on the novel by Jojo Moyes. Masters of the Universe: Revelation – Netflix Original Anime – 7/23/2021   The war for Eternia begins again in what may be the final battle between He-Man and Skeletor. A new animated series from writer-director Kevin Smith. It’s a Crazy World: Season 1- 7/25/2021
“It’s a crazy world” is a modern-day 30-minute sitcom created by Amanda Ebeye and majorly directed by KC Muel and Amanda Ebeye. It tells the story of a very wealthy man with three women and three kids. It’s a hilarious sitcom that addresses the competition women go through. Kingdom: Ashin of the North – Netflix Original Film – 7/23/2021   Tragedy, betrayal, and a mysterious discovery fuel a woman’s vengeance for the loss of her tribe and family in this special episode of “Kingdom.” Orange Is The New Black: Season 7 – Netflix Original Series – 7/27/2021   In the show’s final season, a recently paroled Piper tries to get back on her feet while life in Litchfield, as corrupt as ever, goes on without her. The Last Mercenary – Netflix Original Film – 7/30/2021   Twenty-five years after he made a deal with the French Secret Service to protect his son, an agent is forced out of hiding.