[FILES] Renewable Energy In a bid to bridge the nation’s huge energy gap, Engie Energy Access Nigeria has stated that it is targeting over one million households in Nigeria with its domestic solar installations and local microgrid solutions. Indeed, the pay-as-you-go (PayGo) mini-grids solutions provider stated that the move is apt, considering the global energy transition into renewable energy, alongside plans to take its services to millions of customers across the country before the end of 2025. The Managing Director, Engie Energy Access Nigeria, Bankole Cardoso, at a media launch of the company, said there are huge opportunities in the nation’s clean energy space especially with a growing population such as Nigeria that is yet to meet its energy needs even as it plans to commission a 100KW mini-grid solar facility in Niger State next month. He said the facility is expected to serve over 700 households with six small-scale industries in the State. According to him, one of the constraints in the industry is poor access to finance, both in the building of the critical power infrastructure to serve the teeming population who need reliable access to energy services, purchasing and installation of solar products by consumers of energy solutions. “For the continued growth and betterment of Nigerian life, we all need to work together to improve access to energy for all. We want to use this medium to call on all industry stakeholders, financiers and government agencies to partner with us to make this goal a reality,” he said. “It is no gainsaying that constructing renewable power stations is a capital intensive project that requires syndicated loan arrangements to achieve. Also, for the consumers of energy solutions, limited purchasing power hinders their ability to access clean sustainable power to live a better life. It is for this reason that we offer our products and services on a pay-as-you-go basis where the customer pays to own their solar home systems with the financing for these products kept as low as N100 per day for ease of access to everybody,” he said. The event according to Cardoso, was also to announce the change of name to Engie Energy Access Nigeria, saying that the name change is a result of Engie integrating Fenix International with Engie Mobisol and Engie Power Corner under one entity. He said the integration puts the company in a unique position as the only energy player offering end to end off-grid energy solutions with both solar home systems and mini-grids under one roof. “So far, we have had great success by impacting the lives of over 200,000 Nigerians and we have ambitious growth plans to scale even faster and wider across Nigeria, allowing us to bring our clean, reliable and affordable energy to millions of Nigerians over the next five years,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .