 Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri (middle), Executive Director/Chief Operations Officer, United Nigeria Airlines, Osita Okonkwo (second right), Director of Administration/Special Adviser to the Chairman, Linus Awute (second left) and other officials of the airline after signing a Memorandum of Understanding at the Government House, Yenagoa…yesterday.  The Bayelsa State International Airport will commence commercial flight operations next month following the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the state government and the United Nigeria Airlines yesterday. Speaking on the significance of the event, at the Government House, Yenagoa, Governor Douye Diri expressed delight that the vision for the first airport in the state had become a reality. He said the signing of the MoU signaled the commencement of flight operations at the airport in July and would open the state to new opportunities from around the world. Diri, who also appreciated the Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) for partnering with the state government, appealed to other corporate organisations and international oil companies to equally partner with the state in developing the airport. He also thanked his predecessor, former Governor Seriake Dickson and Bayelsa people for their support for making the project a reality. Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Konbowei Benson, signed on behalf of the government and witnessed by the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Biriyai Dambo (SAN) while the Executive Director and Chief Operations Officer, Osita Okonkwo and Director of Administration/Special Adviser to the Chairman, Linus Awute, represented the company. TO check deforestation and other environmental infractions in its forest reserves, the Bayelsa State Government has revealed that it will soon establish the Bayelsa State Environmental Vanguard. Governor Diri, who disclosed this in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Daniel Alabrah, urged Bayelsa people to shun practices that would constitute a menace to preservation of the environment. Lamenting the degradation of the environment through oil exploration activities by international oil companies, illegal oil bunkering and other unhealthy environmental practices, he sought concerted efforts to preserve the environment, adding that a healthy environment remained fundamental to a people’s survival. Diri directed the Commissioner for the Environment, Iselema Gbaranbiri, to set up a team for the establishment of the environmental agency, which would be responsible for ensuring a clean and healthy environment. Speaker of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, who was represented by Chairman, Committee on the Environment, Ben Ololo, noted that the state’s environment was extremely polluted due to unhealthy practices and advocated sustained tree planting and cleaning of drainages, among other measures to preserve the environment. Speaking, Gbaranbiri restated the importance of a healthy environment to healthy living and urged the oil companies to be more committed to the restoration of the polluted ecosystem.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .