 University of Ilorin logo. Photo:  Speaking on Monday at the opening exhibition of the projects, Prof. Sulyman Abdulkareem, the Vice-Chancellor (VC)  of the university applauded the final year students for their project inventions. Abdulkareem advised the students on various ways to perfect the projects while also pledging his support in developing some of them. Also, Prof. David Ogunniyi, the Dean of the Faculty of Engineering and Technology in the institution, explained that the institution would patent the inventions for commercial purposes. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the exhibition featured over 12 inventions from the students of the Department of Computer Engineering. Ogunniyi lauded the efforts of the students while advising them to strive harder in developing the projects for commercial purposes so as to enhance their knowledge and further contribute positively to society. Similarly, the Head of the Department of Computer Engineering, Dr Tajudeen Ajiboye, said that the exhibition was organised so that the authorities could witness the brilliant inventions of the students. He added that the exhibition was to help the students turn their inventions into products, so as not to rot away. In his remarks, the Director of Academic Planning, Prof Isaac Adimula, also commended the students for their innovation. He advised them not to relent on their discoveries while expressing the hope that the knowledge they had gained would make them independent and self-sufficient in the nearest future. Speaking on the inventions; Mr Abdulkadri Thani, a final year student of the Department, described his invention as an automated irrigation system. He said that it is a device that automatically turns on the water when the soil needs it and shuts it off when the soil is well irrigated. According to him, the device locks the temperature humidity and soil moisture automatically and sends it to the cloud. The inventions exhibited include a pilot-free drone, a  mater magnetizer system with a cloud-based data storage unit, an electrically enhanced walking stick for the visually impaired and a  Voice control for home automation. Others are electronic keys for residential access control using fingerprint technology; a parking space notification system; an automatic quiz buzzer; and an automatic change-over for three power sources. They also include automatic irrigation; and a medical parameter measurement system with a cloud-based data storage unit.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .