• Woman injured in construction rumbles A joint security operation of the army, police and Amotekun has rescued a victim from a kidnap gang in the Akoko area of Ondo State. The victim, a cattle dealer in Daja-Ajowa, Akoko Northwest Local Government Area of the state, Mr.Yekini Oludotun, was,  on Wednesday night, attacked by suspected kidnappers who made an attempt to either kidnap or assassinate him. According to a source, the same gang had earlier operated in the town where they allegedly killed a farmer identified as Mr Dele and abducted two of his sons on Tuesday’s night. But it was gathered that a senior security officer mobilised his men to rescue them from the kidnappers’ onslaught. The source added that combined security personnel, including soldiers, policemen and Amotekun, had already stormed Ajowa-Akoko forest to fish out the criminal elements who have been terrorising the area recently. He lamented that residents of the area are now living in fear and tasked the government to intensify actions to put an end to incessant kidnappings and killings of innocent residents of the area. While efforts to speak with the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Okeagbe Akoko Station, Ade Akinwande, were to no avail as he was said to have led his men to the forest in search of the gang. In another development, a landlady (name withheld), was stuck in debris at a demolition site at the ongoing construction of Ijoka Road expansion in Akure, the state capital. The Guardian learnt that the incident occurred on Tuesday at King of Kings Bus Stop, Ijoka, after the landlady refused to leave her property which had been marked for demolition by the Ondo State Government for the purpose. An eyewitness, who pleaded anonymity, narrated that workers of the construction company, Fountain Construction Company (FCC), began the demolition of the house without knowing that the woman was inside the house. It was, however, gathered that the victim did not die but was seriously injured as the debris of the demolished building fell on her, while residents of the area blamed the woman for refusing to quit, knowing fully well that her building had been marked for demolition. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Idowu Allen, confirmed the incident but said no life was lost. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .