 Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq (middle) welcoming decampees from Peoples Democratic Party and other parties to the All Progressives Congress, in Ilorin…yesterday  AbdulRazaq said the development attests to the rising popularity of the party owing to the people-focused programmes and policies of his administration.
 
“Evidently, President Muhammadu Buhari, governors, lawmakers and all officials elected on the platform of APC are clearly living up to the dreams of the founding fathers of our country. The economy is growing stronger amid unprecedented infrastructural development, while increasing attention is being paid to security of lives and properties,” the Governor observed, amid cheers from the defectors, top APC chieftains, and government functionaries who included Deputy Governor, Kayode Alabi, Speaker, Danladi Yakubu-Salihu, Secretary to the State Government, Prof Mamman Saba Jubril. “We have remained committed to good governance. We are indeed proud of the impacts that our investments in human capital and infrastructural development are having on the people. Our social security programmes targeting the poor and vulnerable are glaring. Security of lives and properties remains a top priority, while we are putting Kwara on a sound footing to lead the North once again. “We have also prioritised youths and women empowerment and inclusion, widening employment opportunities and paying attention to all that can guarantee brightest future for our younger generation. “This mass defection to APC today under our leadership is a tonic for all of us in trusted positions to continue to give our best for the collective good of our people. I urge you all to work together as a team and members of the same APC family in Kwara State.” He said the party is made stronger with its policies that guarantee equal opportunity for all members, old or new, adding that no fewer than 400,000 new APC members have so far been registered in the state. Former presidential candidate of the ACPN Gani Galadima, who spoke on behalf of the defectors from the central senatorial district, said his defection was hinged on the deliberate efforts of the governor to reposition Kwara through massive infrastructural renewal, his care for the people, and his hands-on approach to governance, culminating in visible impacts on the populace. Comrade Issa Aremu, former governorship candidate of Labour Party and Director-General of the Michael Imoudu National Institute of Labour Studies, commended AbdulRazaq for his investment in education sector. Defectors included immediate past council chairmen, including former ALGON chief, Joshua Adekanye; Hon. Fatai Adeniyi Garba (Labaka), and Hon. Yinka Dallas, who hailed the governor for his democratic dispositions and his commitment to developments with direct impacts on the people, especially at the grassroots.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .