 [FILES] Sanwo-Olu. Photo: TWITTER/JIDESANWOOLU  Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has pledged to provide enabling environment for continuous growth of water transportation by prioritising safety on waterways and also ensuring total compliance with safety protocols and regulations in the state. Sanwo-Olu stated this, yesterday, during the commissioning of seven new high capacity boats and launch of cowry card for water transportation, saying that it would take concerted efforts to strengthen waterways infrastructure. “I urge the organised private sector to invest in water transportation, as the economic potential is limitless. I assure you that we will continue to support private sector participation in water transportation by putting in place appropriate regulatory framework for high returns on investment,” he said. The governor said the administration would not relent in doing the best for Lagosians and making their daily commute safe and less stressful, the reason it has concluded plans to boost water transportation safety measures and protocols with the deployment and installation of technological devices for improved navigation. IN another development, the bill for a law aimed at criminalising illegal organ transplant in Lagos State has scaled second reading at the state House of Assembly. Chairman, House Committee on Health Services, Olusola Sokunle, said the bill was a legal framework to regulate the removal and transplant of organs from either living or dead person to patients suffering from terminal organ failure. Sokunle, who represents Oshodi Constituency, also said the bill would regulate the harvest and transplant of human organs to curb illegal trading of human parts. He stated that the bill would ensure persons suffering from organ failure have access to available organs, adding that it would also ensure standard medical procedure for human organ harvest and transplant is followed. The Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, said the bill was a good and best thing that would ensure those with terminal organ failure still live, as there would be certified organ transplant for them. MEANWHILE, the convener of Lagos4Lagos Movement, Dr. Abdul-Azeez  Adediran, yesterday, launched a crowd-funding, Lagos4UNDLagos, to attract the support of well-meaning Lagosians ahead of his 2023 governorship ambition. Director of Media and Strategy for the movement, Mr. Seun Soyinka, said the time has come to free the state from godfathers.
who has dominated the state’s politics since 1999. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .