 Senate President Ahmed Lawan. Photo: TWITTER/DRAHMADLWAN/TOPEBROWN  President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, has declared that the upper legislative Chamber of the National Assembly would provide an atmosphere for amendment of the Electoral Act to enable Nigerians to elect good leaders and ensure improved governance. Lamenting the persistent insecurity, he said insurgency had created several Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) adding: “IDP is symptom of insecurity in the country.” The Senate commenced zonal public hearings two weeks ago on the amendment of the 1999 Constitution, which culminated in the national public hearing in Abuja last week. Lawan spoke yesterday, when he led some lawmakers to the Wassa IDP camp in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, adding that the Senate will consider and pass the 2021 supplementary budget speedily, whenever President Muhammadu Buhari sends it to the chamber. He said the National Assembly was waiting to approve the N895 billion supplementary budget proposal from the executive, when sent to the legislature, noting that over N700 billion from the expected N895 billion supplementary budget proposal was earmarked for security. He further explained that while the executive was doing all it could to address insecurity in the country, the 9th Senate would dedicate the remaining two years to focus on issues that matter most to Nigerians, especially security. “The IDPs are forced by circumstances and they have every right like other Nigerians to enjoy government’s support. We at the Senate consciously decided to visit the camp to mark our second year anniversary. And we will take particular interest on social amenities and facilities in the camp,” he said. Lawan, who donated N10 million to the IDPs, urged other leaders to show empathy and commitment to the protection of the lives of displaced persons, just as he tasked the National Refugee Commission (NRC) to provide adequate amenities for IDP camps in the country. He insisted that it was impossible for IDPs to make a meaningful living without assistance from Nigerians. Earlier, Minister of the FCT, Muhammad Bello, disclosed that the capital city now has 24 IDP camps, comprising mainly persons from Nasarawa and Kogi states in 23 camps, while the Wassa camp was host to 26,000 displaced persons from Gwoza in Borno State.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .