 Wilie Obiano. Photo: ETIMES  APGA arithmetic
Former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, who was at the centre of PDP’s macabre dance in court in 2010, as well as APGA’s screening shock of 2013, featured also in the governing party’s style of working towards a predetermined answer.  ATMs (Automatic Teller Machines).
Disqualifications, fresh factionalisation
BARELY 24 hours after the party’s screening committee disqualified some frontline governorship aspirants ahead of the November governorship election, including Nze Akachukwu Nwankpo, Hon Chukwuma Umeoji and Nonso Nwokafor, a fresh crisis sprouted within the APGA National Working Committee (NWC).
 
The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Ikechukwu Chinyere, who disclosed the sacking of Victor Oye, alongside six other chieftains, said those involved were booted out for “anti-party activities, gross misconduct and conduct capable of bringing the party’s image to disrepute, among others.”
  
Chinyere disclosed that the removal of Oye was part of the resolutions reached at the party’s 114 National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, adding that the party also nullified the underhanded disqualification of five aspirants by Oye and also shifted the party’s gubernatorial primary earlier fixed for June 23, to July 1, 2021.
   
The five aspirants disqualified by the screening committee before the recent development in the party are, Nze Akachukwu Sullivan Nwankpo, Chukwuma Umeoji, Okafor Smart, Ozoka Ifeanyi, and Nnamdi Dike.
  
Prior to the sudden change of guards in APGA NWC faction loyal to Oye, both Nwankpo, Umeoji and Nwokafor, said they have appealed against their disqualification, just as the former Special Assistant to former President Goodluck Jonathan on Technical Matters, Nwankpo, obtained an order of court barring APGA from going ahead with the governorship primary pending the determination of the substantive suit.
 
It would be recalled that the screening committee had given reasons for disqualifying Nwankpo, including, the fact that his membership of APGA is less than 18 months and fell short of the two year mandatory period he needed to qualify to stand for election on the party’s platform. He was also accused of not applying for or obtaining the party’s waiver to seek election in addition to the fact that his nominators fell short of the 2/3 spread of APGA members in the 21 LGA of Anambra state.  About-face
WHILE confusion within the Oye camp deepened, a member of the party in Ibeku ward of Aboh Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo state, Chimezie Uwakwe, narrated how he was tricked into signing a purported expulsion against Chief Njoku, stressing that his inability to read or write made it impossible for him to know what he was endorsing with his thumbprint.
   
Uwakwe’s confession was contained in a letter to the party leadership, where he declared: “I did not write or suggest to be written any document referring to the expulsion of Chief Edozie Njoku from APGA as purported in a letter on APGA letterhead dated March 2, 2021 and addressed to nobody in particular.”
 
There were claims within the party that Oye was sacked because he allegedly withheld the original result from the screening committee and released the one containing the disqualification of five contenders to serve an ulterior motive.
   
It could not be ascertained whether the new development informed Nwankpo’s decision to approach the court, but new confessions might likely spew out in the days to come before the governorship primary. PDP’s share of confusion
LIKE a bolt from the blues, the state executive committee of Anambra PDP led by Nwobu was sacked by a High Court sitting in Abuja, which pronounced Ejike Oguebego as the authentic state chairman. Oguebego is said to be a lackey of self-acclaimed political godfather of Anambra State, Chief Chris Uba.
 
Party insiders rebuffed the shocking court ruling, saying that the state working committee has little to do with the nomination of the party’s aspirants for the governorship poll.
 
A spokesman of one of the aspirants who spoke to The Guardian in confidence said his principal was not putting any premium on the so-called judgment, adding that “the procurer of the judgment has failed to understand that a lot of water has passed through Onitsha bridge regarding politics of Anambra State.”
   
In Abuja, virtually all the national officers of PDP declined comments in the belief that doing so would add value to the intendments of the political jobbers behind the move and stir up needless concerns.
 
Meanwhile, just like in the APGA instance, the factional state chairman of the party, Chukwudi Umeaba, nullified the three-man ward delegates Congress earlier held in the state, noting that a new date for fresh congresses would be announced after due consultations with stakeholders.
 
He stated: “We need to contact the NEC of our great party to set a new date for the ward congresses that will elect the three-man Adhoc committee for the governorship primary. We will go ahead with the plans for the election.”
  
It would be recalled that PDP made overtures to its faithful in Anambra urging those with subsisting litigations to withdraw them in the interest of the party and for the reconciliation efforts engineered by the national leadership to take due course.
   
Close watchers of Anambra politics said it would not be out of place to suggest that some political merchants in the state must have reached out to a strong opposition party (name withheld) to stoke confusion in APGA and PDP, given their spread in the state.  
 
Whatever is playing out in the build up to the November 6, Anambra governorship poll would be clearer in a week’s time when the governorship primaries would be prosecuted. RESPONDING to his purported sack, Oye declared that; “the so-called Jude Okeke and his cohorts are not officers or financial members of our great party and, therefore, did not have any powers to speak on behalf of the party.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .