 Ortom. Photo/TWITTER/GOVSAMUELORTOM  Ortom, who gave the charge yesterday, while declaring the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of BECCIMA open, intimated that the state government, BECCIMA and the local councils would be working together to establish industries in each local council based on needs. According to him, the drivers of this project are the private sector represented by BECCIMA. “So, let us take the opportunity of the funding windows available at the Bank of Industry (BoI) and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN),” he added. The governor lauded the outgoing President of BECCIMA, Dr. Paul Ubwa, for attracting the Nigeria Agro-Industry Agri-Business Development Initiative (NAADI) to the state, which his government domesticated, a focal person appointed and office as well as vehicles provided. “The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment will be here in the state in July to inaugurate the project,” Ortom added. IN Nasarawa State, Governor Abdullahi Sule has said that Public-Private Partnership (PPP) remains the panacea to unemployment in the country. Speaking when he visited Halibiz Industries, situated in the Idu industrial area, Abuja, Sule stressed the need for infrastructure to reposition the country’s economy. The governor identified the lack of good roads, potable water and stable electricity in the country as some of the impediments to industrial growth. He promised to partner with the President of Halibiz, Mr. Adamu Aliyu, a Nasarawa indigene, to boost the state’s economy. Sule added: “In a business like this, there are many ways to partner. First, he is somebody we admire. We appreciate him for the wonderful thing he is doing by creating employment for Nigerians. That is our pride. He is a pride of Nasarawa. “If you know how the company started, it even makes us be prouder that we have someone from Nasarawa doing something like this.” Aliyu, a quantity surveyor, urged the governor to partner with his company to see the reality of his initiatives, which he said would provide jobs for many youths.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .