No fewer than 17 persons were reportedly killed on Sunday night by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Kushe community in Kuru District of  Jos South Local Government Area and Zolgo village in Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State. It was gathered that the killing, which took place simultaneously, saw 12 persons murdered in Kushe village and five persons in Zolgo village about 9:30 p.m. respectively when suspected Fulani herdsmen stormed the communities and shot at people sporadically. The Guardian learnt that five persons, who sustained gunshot injuries, are receiving treatment at various hospitals in the state. District Head and Gwom Rwey Kuru, Da Patrick Mandung, who confirmed the incident, said his people were attacked without any provocation. “I don’t know why people will come from different places to come and kill people and just go. I appeal to security agencies to fish out the perpetrators. I condemn this act in totality and I want these people fished out,” he said. Also, a member representing Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency of Plateau State in the House of Representatives, Hon. Dachung Musa Bagos, condemned the act and urged the people to defend themselves from attacks. According to him, “You can imagine that 12 lives were wiped out in this attack. “Government must rise to its responsibility of protecting lives and property. Security must not be one-sided. Government must provide security to all. I want to assure the people that I will stand by them. I will stand with the families that have lost their loved ones. “If the government cannot protect the people then the people must defend themselves. This is the reason why we have been talking about the need for State Police and therefore intelligent gathering is very key in this regard. Security must not allow this kind of barbaric act again. A generation has been wiped out.” Management Committee Chairman of Jos South Local Government Area, Ambassador Gideon Davou Dandereng, described the killings as unacceptable and urged the security to unravel those behind the attack. Dandereng said: “You can see what happens here. This is a home, where people live, they were attacked and killed. This is barbaric and as humans, this is what humans can do to their fellow human beings. I completely disagree with this and it is unacceptable. “I want security agencies to do their best and fish out those who carry out this attack. Once this is done, confidence will be restored. I urge the community people to remain calm and allow  security operatives to do their job.” Also, a member representing Jos South in the Plateau State House of Assembly, Hon. Dalyop Fom, condemned the act and lamented that his people had been helpless for a long time. He called on security agencies to beef up security in the area to protect villagers from evil people. Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Defence and Senator representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang, also, condemned the attack and lamented that information about the last attack was in the public domain, with regards to the place and time, yet the government couldn’t act to save the people. He charged security agencies to live up to their responsibility of protecting lives and property, particularly in the villages. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Gabriel Uba Ogaba,  who confirmed the attack, said “personnel of the Command and the Military have been deployed to the affected area. He said the state Commissioner of Police has ordered an immediate investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding the killings and to bring the perpetrators to book. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .