Participants at the two-day validation workshop on Training Manual/Curriculum for Developers of Interconnected Mini-Grids): Business Plan Development and Loan application Procedures in Lagos Stakeholders have endorsed a training manual/curriculum on interconnected mini-grids for renewable energy projects. The manual was approved in a two-day validation workshop on Training Manual/Curriculum for Developers of Interconnected Mini-Grids): Business Plan Development and Loan application Procedures organised by Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN) in collaboration with United Nations Development Organisation (UNDP) Nigeria in Lagos. The programme comes under the UNDP-Global Environment Facility (GEF) De-risking Renewable Energy for the Nigerian Power Sector project. The Director-General, Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN), Prof. Eli Bala, who opened the workshop said the programme is meant to subject the draft manual to experts peer review, while creating opportunity for stakeholders to scrutinise the manual. Such, he said would enhance buy-in and ownership by all mini-grid developers who are expected to be the end-users of the knowledge product. Bala, represented by a Deputy Director, Mr. Okon Ekpeyong, an engineer, said: “The need to exploit the huge renewable energy resources in the country cannot be over-emphasised as the nation lies within a high sunshine belt that has enormous solar energy potentials. “The mean yearly average of total solar radiation varies from about 3.5 kWhm–2day-1 in the coastal latitudes to about 7 kWhm–2day-1 along the semi-arid areas in the far North. On the average, the country receives solar radiation at the level of about 19.8 MJm–2 day-1. “It is in recognition of this, that the Nigeria in its Vision 30:30:30 set the target to achieve 32,000 MW of available generation capacity on the grid by 2030 with 30 per cent renewable energy penetration. This ambitious target emanates from our collective pursuit for energy security.” According to Prof. Bala, the project was re-designed to re-focus on the development of interconnected mini-grids, which seems to face lesser challenges and risks. Recognising the limited skills and experience of mini – grid developers and other key industry stakeholders. He explained that in 2020, the UNDP-GEF Project on “De-risking Renewable energy NAMA in the Nigerian Power Sector” developed a comprehensive, coordinated and sustainable training manual/curriculum for interconnected mini-grids development in Nigeria. Bala said the training manual/curriculum or guidebook takes detailed look at all the knowledge required for a developer to successfully execute Interconnected mini grids in Nigeria. The manual covers all the major aspects of required knowledge and skills to start, execute and run a mini grid plant in Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .