Jada Pinkett Shares Never-Before-Seen Poem Written By Tupac Jada Pinkett Smith is celebrating the legacy of rap icon Tupac Shakur on what would have been his 50th birthday with one of his poems she says “you may have never heard before.” “Of course, I went down memory lane,” the “Red Table Talk” host reflected in an Instagram video shared Tuesday ahead of his birthday Wednesday. She and Shakur were friends beginning in their teen years, both attending the Baltimore School for the Arts. Over the years, Pac wrote me many letters and many poems. I don’t think this one has ever been published, honestly. I was like, I don’t think he would have minded if I shared this with you guys.’ The poem, titled “Lost Soulz,” was the original concept for his song “Lost Souls,” featured on the soundtrack for the 1997 crime thriller “Gang Related.” She thought Shakur might have written the poem while imprisoned on Rikers Island in New York after he was charged in a sexual assault case in the ’90s. Shakur was killed in a drive-by shooting in 1997 when he was 25 years old. Pinkett Smith and Shakur met on the first day of high school in Baltimore and grew increasingly close until she walked away from their friendship when she felt his life was getting too dangerous. The former friends were estranged at the time of his death after a fight led to their separation. On her Red Table Talk show in 2019, Pinkett Smith opened up about the “complex relationship” she had with Shakur, recalling how “we were an anchor for each other.” In the caption of her Instagram upload, Pinkett Smith said the late rapper had a “way with words” and spoke of honoring his legacy. Tupac Amaru Shakur would have been 50 midnight tonight! As we prepare to celebrate his legacy … let’s remember him for that which we loved most … his way with words. Here are a few you may have never heard before Happy ‘you goin’n to be 50 at midnight’ Birthday Pac!  I got next  P.s I was planning to post tomorrow which is why the video says today is Pac’s bday. But I decided to start earlyyyyy .   A post shared by Jada Pinkett Smith (@jadapinkettsmith) 