 Ekiti State University  The programme, approved by National Universities Commission (NUC) would be run on weekdays and weekends for prospective students. The Director of Studies, Dr. Lance Musa Elakama, said his passion for education was the motivating factor. Elakama further stated that youths, as future leaders, should be properly equipped to take the nation to greater heights, which informed his decision to partner with EKSU. Under the arrangement, the centre’s administrator, Dr. Godson Agbim, said the school would formally commence its 2021/2022 academic session this month. He also stated that necessary infrastructural facilities had been put in place for the smooth take-off of the programme. Apart from pre-degree programmes, Agbim said the centre would offer diploma, degree and post-graduate programmes. The available courses for students are Accounting, Banking and Finance, Business Administration, Economics, Political Science, Marketing and Diploma in Law. Elakama, a chartered accountant cum legal practitioner, also stated that the centre has highly qualified staff and faculty members with well-equipped library and Information Communication Technology (ICT) centre for effective teaching and learning. Of importance is the fact that prospective students do not have to go through writing Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), conducted by Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), while certificates would be issued to graduating students by EKSU. He said: “Students who are not yet qualified for direct admission can go through their pre-degree/remedial programmes while OND or HND holders will do the top-up programme in a shorter period. Besides, students can combine full-time work with qualitative part-time studies.” When The Guardian went around the premises, it observed that the environment had been made conducive for learning with air-conditioned classrooms, standby generating set and ICT facilities in place, while fees are affordable. Agbim said the idea was to add value to youths, as the younger ones are no longer interested in learning. In terms of quality, Agbim said CVs of intending lecturers are forwarded to EKSU management for review to determine their competencies. He assured that quality and standard would not be compromised while there would be no disruption of the academic calendar since issues of strikes would not arise. Dr. Agbim blamed deplorable education standard on not only teachers and students, but also on parents and society at large. He said a situation where lecturers victimise students for not buying handouts, where students bribe lecturers to pass and where society rewards mediocrity at the expense of hard work call for great concern. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .