 IGP Usman Alkali Baba. Photo/TWITTER/POLICENG  Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba Alkali, yesterday, lamented that inter-agency rivalry was limiting capacity of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to effectively tackle insecurity. Addressing a yearly ministerial retreat with the theme, “Strengthening Inter-Agency Collaboration and Organisation Efficiency” in Abuja, the IGP maintained that the friction constitutes a major threat to internal security and national cohesion According to him, the menace has been of concern to majority of Nigerians over the years, adding that the problem is not peculiar to Nigeria. “It is a phenomenon noticeable among security agencies even in advanced democracies,” Alkali clarified. The police chief said the unsavoury development accounts for budgetary wastage, duplication of functions, mutual suspicion and encroachment on legal and operational space by competing agencies. He noted that the hostility was also exposing security agencies to public ridicule and confidence deficit in the discharge of their statutory duties.	Alkali regretted that the raging misunderstanding between the Police Service Commission (PSC) and the force’s management over the yearly recruitment of 10,000 constables was affecting vision of the leadership for an effective policing system. The development, he added, had slowed down attainment of the police’s strategic manpower projection plans. Also speaking, the Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Maigari Dingyadi, urged holistic review of strategies to addressing the increasing secessionist agitations in the country. He said changing crime pattern arising from intense global terrorism and arms struggle in the Sahel region was threatening national security and compromising the nation-state ideal postulated in the 1948 Westphalia Treaty that laid premium on sovereignty, territorialism and ability of government to protect the state and its citizens. “The need to emplace sustainable measures, to tackle infamous security challenges threatening collective peace, security, growth and development in parts of the country, re-affirms the importance of having this retreat at this time,” he explained. MEANWHILE, the IGP has suspended issuance of SPY number plates and tinted glass permits due to abuses and criminality. Addressing strategic commanders in Abuja, he said reports reaching him indicated that criminal elements were executing their nefarious activities in the cover of both status emblems. He said: “For the avoidance of doubts, SPY number plates are for official use of some categories of corporate bodies, while tinted glass permits are issued under some statutory regulations.  Alkali added that extant authorisations were being reviewed, with a protocol to regulate the issuance of the permits on the way. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .