President of the Nigerian-American Chamber of Commerce (NACC), Oluwatoyin Akomolafe The Nigerian-American Chamber of Commerce (NACC) has urged well-meaning Nigerians to lift the burden of vulnerable Nigerians amid economic downturn in the country. The National President, Otunba Toyin Akomolafe, who spoke during a charity visit of NACC to Modupe Cole Memorial Child Care and Treatment Home School, Akoka, Lagos state and Federal Nigeria Society for the Blinds (FNSB) commended the government’s efforts and urged them to do more. According to him, the gesture was part of a programme to commemorate NACC’s 60th anniversary, while pledging the chamber’s commitment to continue to support charity homes. The Guardian observed that while Akomolafe personally donated the sum of N200, 000, NACC gave fans, clothing, foodstuffs and provisions to the homes. He urged the government to take more interest in charity work and also sensitise different Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and philanthropic organisations. “This was to have taken place last year, but we had to postpone these activities because of the onslaught of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. The government should not bear the burden of charity homes alone, well-meaning Nigerians should emulate what we are doing and give back to the society.” “Whatever we are today is by the grace of the almighty God, nobody is perfect, and it’s not their fault that they are in this kind of situation. We should do everything possible within our means to give back to society.” He added: “This is a start to a more enduring relationship. As you are probably aware, our Chamber is also a non-profit and non-governmental organisation with limited resources. Notwithstanding, as the popular adage says, ‘where there is a will, there is a way.’ Despite the fact that we got the list of your specific needs quite late, we were determined to be here today as a start of what will be a more enduring relationship.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .