 Charles Ighele  This story goes to show the type of hearts both of them have. Their relationship had gotten to the point whereby they easily let go and forgive each other. Some men who are not like that might even get angrier and accuse their wives of not respecting their feelings of anger. Forgiveness soothes the heart and makes it stronger. Whenever you forgive, you feel relieved like someone who puts down a very heavy load. When we fail to forgive someone who has offended us, we are making life more miserable for that person and for ourselves. 2 Corinthians 2:7 explains it, this way, “So that contrary wise ye ought rather forgive him, and comfort him, lest perhaps such one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow.” As much as we would love to be forgiven, we should also easily forgive others. When your spouse offends you, how long do you get angry or keep malice? Are you in the category of people who will minimise communicating with your spouse? Some even go to the extent of rubbing it off on their children when they have a misunderstanding with their spouse. They will not talk to anyone in the house; only to outsiders. The length of time it takes you to get over your anger matters a lot. It shows the type of heart you have. Nobody is above mistakes. Do not let the sun go down on your anger. Ephesians 4:26 says, “Be ye angry and sin not: let not the sun go down upon your anger…” Do not allow your anger turn to sin by allowing the anger to germinate. We must at one point or the other offend each other but the level of maturity is usually tested by the number of minutes you sulk or let go. Put yourself in the shoes of the one who offended you and see how you will feel if someone refused to forgive you. Even when the person who offended you fails to apologise to you, it is your duty to forgive the person. Some people are not good with an apology but it does not mean you should shut the person out because he/she failed to apologise to you. Grow up. Mature. Begin to develop to forgive your spouse quickly. A way to develop this attitude is to make up your mind to decide to forgive your spouse even before he/she does what will offend you. Couples who have deliberately worked on their minds to forgive their spouses before they offend them have found out that such a decision turned out to be a powerful shock absorber. It has enabled them to forgive their spouses as quickly as possible. Grow up. Mature into this level of marital, family and human relationship. Love you. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .