 INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu (left); Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha and  Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari during their meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja…yesterday.  Amid the outbreak of violence and rising calls for secession from agitators in the South, President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, issued a stern warning to those promoting crime and insurrection in the country, saying that his administration will treat them in the language they understand and they will soon receive the shock of their lives.
 
Speaking after he received a briefing from the Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu, on series of attacks on facilities of the electoral body around the country, President Buhari said the Federal Government has given the perpetrators enough time and was now ready to act.
 
While noting that those misbehaving in certain parts of the country were obviously too young to know the travails and loss of lives that attended the Nigerian Civil War, he said: “Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand. We are going to be very hard sooner than later.  THE Senate, yesterday, expressed concern over the spate of one minute silence usually observed at its plenary as a result of deaths associated with security challenges in the country. This is just as the upper chamber at Tuesday’s plenary observed one minute silence six times for those who lost their lives through killings and murders last week.
 
President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, who made this observation during plenary, however, stressed the need for the National Assembly to increase its legislative interventions towards ensuring adequate security of life and property in the country.  MEANWHILE, Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State has described the recent killing of Ebonyi and Benue indigenes by herdsmen at the border between both states as a wicked and satanic act. He spoke, yesterday, when he visited victims of the attack at the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital (AEFUTHA).
 
More than 30 persons have been killed in the attacks, which occurred at the weekend, although locals said the death toll is more than 50. The governor said he could not understand the raping of little children by the killer herdsmen.
 
“What I saw this afternoon is nothing but an act of wickedness and Satanism. I do not know for any reason why people should be raping two-year-old children, putting knives on one-year-old children, killing mothers and fathers, for what reason!”
 
Umahi also urged the people of Benue to form their own vigilante to secure themselves and stop blaming President Buhari. He vowed to assist the communities in Benue with a large concentration of Ebonyi indigenous people to set up their own security outfit similar to Ebube Agu, to enable them to protect themselves.
 
But the Benue State Deputy Governor, Benson Abounu, has said one word from President Buhari to killer herders will go a long way in ending incessant killings. According to him, some drastic steps needed to be taken to put an end to killings by some herders, and Fulani leaders need to speak up against the attacks by herders on communities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .