 Oluwarotimi Akeredolu  Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has urged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to desist from blackmailing the government, insisting that welfare of the workers in the state is non-negotiable and paramount to the administration. Akeredolu, in a statement in Akure, yesterday, through the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, said PDP’s outburst was a “rough path to depression.” He implored the party to rather concentrate on the Supreme Court case. The PDP governorship candidate in the state, Eyitayo Jegede, having lost the bid to contest Akeredolu’s victory in the 2020 governorship poll at the tribunal and Appeal Court, had sought litigation at the Supreme Court. Also, the zonal leadership of the major opposition party had alleged that Governor Akeredolu “mortgaged the welfare of workers in Ondo State to procure a favourable judgment at the Supreme Court.” Ojogo said: “The Ondo State government, led by Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, shall not, at this instance, serve as the Supreme Court’s mouthpiece in the face of the PDP’s uncanny attacks. “It is, however, disturbing to note that a political party, ostensibly speaking for a Senior Advocate, could descend to the unpardonable abyss of branding justices of the Apex Court ‘procurable’ items in the course of their duties to the nation. “The question is: for what purpose was the unpaid seven months salaries under the last PDP administration mortgaged? Of truth, workers are entitled to their wages and are indeed, right to demand legitimate entitlements.” IN another development, an oil firm, Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL), has stressed the need for peace in host-communities. CNL’s General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, Mr. Brikinn Esimaje, said this, at the weekend, during the 2021 Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Ilaje Rural Development Advocacy Committee Initiatives (IRDC) in Ilaje Local Council of Ondo State. Esimaje stated that “the Ilaje RDC is a community-based organisation founded and funded by Chevron to manage community development in constituent areas under the Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU). Esimaje, who was represented by the Senior Government Advisor, Mr. Happy Apai, said: “It is important to note that the benefits of the GMoU can only be sustained in an atmosphere of peace that is conducive for business activities. “As we all know, a key element of the GMoU is the peace building which creates a platform for all stakeholders to address issues and grievances through dialogue without allowing them to degenerate into disruptive conflict situations.” He, therefore, urged the people and other critical stakeholders in the communities to continuously support the GMoU programme “so that the communities can reap more benefits.” The Ondo State government, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Raphael Akinkugbe, reiterated the importance of peace, harmony and co-operation for the development of the communities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .