 [FILES] Seyi Makinde. Photo/TWITTER/SEYIAMAKINDE  He added that the State Government has also commenced the process of digitising all paper files for complete business process automation while implementing an Open Contracting Data Standard (OCDS) and E-procurement platform for efficient contracting transparency and online procurement. The Special Assistant further disclosed that the State has also carried out biometric registration and verification of all government workers, pensioners, and ad-hoc staff.
   
The state had also organised Oracle Academy training on java fundamentals and database management for all its Computer Science teachers, who will, in turn, train their students, as Programming Languages is introduced to secondary schools’ curriculum in the State (java fundamentals and database management).
   
Corroborating this, the Country Programmes Manager, Oracle Academy Sub-Sahara Africa, Sefunmi Fadahunsi, said that the Oyo State Government partook of the partnership agreement Oracle signed with the Federal Ministry of Education to advance Computer Science Education in Nigeria and “we are glad at the quick adoption from Oyo State. Teacher Training has been delivered to pilot Teachers who will multiply and transfer this knowledge to Students and also adopt the knowledge and curriculum in their teaching. This is exemplary progress.”
   
Commenting on the landmark achievements of the State in the area of ICTs, the Chief Executive Officer of Presto Integrated Solutions, Chris Okafor, said “the future-oriented and visionary government of Engr. Seyi Makinde deemed it fit to set up a fibre optic network all over the Oyo state secretariat to enhance staff productivity and efficiency.”
   
“The Government deployed Fibre to the office (FTTO) network which provides an excellent platform for ultra-high-speed access technologies and is designed to move high data, video and voice traffic within and outside the Oyo state government secretariat. Every building in the secretariat is wired to the fibre backhaul and users connect to the network wirelessly without any hindrances or encumbrances,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .