NSCDC The Commandant General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC), Dr. Ahmed Abubakar Audi, has said that the Corps is committed to strengthening capacity of personnel to end terrorism in the Northeast. According to him, the security situation in the country is disturbing and assuming a dangerous dimension to people’s lives and property. The 12-year Boko Haram insurgency has killed about 40,000 people with property worth $9.1 billion (N3.42 trillion) destroyed in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. Audi disclosed this at a two-day capacity workshop for 120 NSCDC personnel at Government House, Maiduguri. He said the workshop was to tackle insecurity with synergy of the military and other security agencies. The commandant general said the security situation requires a multi-stakeholders’ approach through human capital development, noting that this will enhance personnel’s skills and competence in fighting insurgents. According to him, the spate of crimes in the country, including kidnappings, terrorism, suicide bombings, banditry and communal clashes, have continued to rise by the day, stressing that the situation calls for urgent action and response by the NSCDC and other security agencies. While commending the North East Development Commission (NEDC) and its role in enhancing capacity of NSCDC personnel, he noted that this would help protect critical national assets and infrastructural facilities, including farmers with Agro Rangers. He said the capacity building of personnel could also protect farmers to ensure food security and livelihoods. Audi, therefore, urged the personnel to be more active in intelligence gathering to checkmate activities of terrorists and other suspected criminals. While declaring the workshop open, Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, said: “The increased capacity of personnel must be sustained to reduce the rates of terrorism and other forms of criminal activities.” Zulum, who was represented by his deputy, Umar Kadafur, said the introduction of Agro Rangers was to protect farmers while cultivating their farmlands across the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .