 [FILES] PHOTO: Ebonyi State Goverment  The retailers are members of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers. The state Chief Fire Officer, Mr Raphael Ibiam, said the training was designed to reawaken the consciousness of the participants on safety. According to Ibiam, the sensitisation will also help to control any emergency before the arrival of fire fighters and engines. He said the participants were trained on the effective use of fire extinguisher and safety measures to control possible incidents. He said the training also dwelt on the technical aspect of fire extinguisher, how to service it in order to keep the chemical active and how it could be deployed to fight fire. The chief fire officer urged NUPENG to extend the knowledge they acquired to their sales representatives to be guarded. He said that retailers should ensure good house keeping and proper gas storage in shops to provide enough ventilation that would help to reduce gas concentration.
”There is also the need to avoid making calls when refilling. “In the event of fire outbreak, try and extinguish the fire, if safe to do so.
”Use wet blanket to cover security cap of the gas cylinder, close the valves to shut off the gas, among other safety tips,” Ibiam said. He described the training as a routine programme to equip the participants on fire safety control process. “We expect them to play according to the rule to prevent fire outbreak,” he said.
The Chairman of LPGRA, Mr Jude Ani, said the group would continue to collaborate with the command to ensure safety of the people. Ani requested that inspection officers be sent always on routine checks to ensure that members maintained safety rules and regulations. “We commend fire service for their intense training and advise our customers to be vigilant on the use of gas product,” Ani said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that highpoint of the training was the presentation of certificates to participants on risk control for gas dealers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .