 Ben Nwoye  He urged Igbo politicians, who are interested in the position to not only declare their stance, but work harder by carrying South East politicians and other regions along, if they must realize their aspiration. Nwoye stressed that political power was not given on a platter, insisting that the demand by Ndigbo to produce the next president of the country, would remain a mirage if individuals with such ambition did not disclose their intentions publicly and begin to match their words with actions. He frowned on a situation where those who have presidential ambition in the South East zone were doing so in their comfort zones.  Nwoye was reacting to an online opinion poll, which favoured a chieftain of APC from Enugu State, Emperor Baywood Chris Ibeh, as the best presidential material. The mock election was conducted by the Chief Chinedu Ogbuagu-led APC’s South East Integrity Group, which had since releasing its verdict, been soliciting support for a president of Igbo extraction in 2023 for fairness, justice and unity. The result of the mock election in which 89 members of the group voted, saw Baywood Ibeh securing 29 votes over other South East politicians with presidential ambition. Others are Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba (18 votes), Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu (14), ex- Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi (10), former Enugu State Governor, Sullivan Chime (seven) former President of the Senate President, Ken Nnamani (three), Rochas Okorocha (three), Orji Ụzọr Kalu (two), Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Nweze Umahi (one) and Francis Nomeh (one). The poll also revealed that other Igbo politicians, such as Chike Okafor, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, Sharon Ikeazor, Julius Ucha and Osita Izunaso, among others, secured zero votes. Nwoye, who described Ibeh as “capable and qualified to steer the ship of the country if given the opportunity,” stressed that the South East people should show seriousness in their quest to rule the country come 2023. “Nobody will be in the comfort of his room and have the presidency delivered to him. People must make the move. Things don’t work that way. We cannot get the presidency by mere wishful thinking on social media, our people must take courageous steps,” he stressed.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .