 [FILE] Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu  Inaugurating the 11-man committee in Abuja, Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, said the committee would undertake one of the most important and meaningful assignments on behalf of the ministry and the country as a whole. Represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Sonny Echono, the minister called on members to live up to expectations in carrying out the assignment, stressing that boosting efforts in research and development would redefine the nation’s path to a knowledge economy. “The task of preparing a draft Executive Bill is not an ordinary job. It requires  some of our best and tested lawyers, academics and industry leaders. “The nation has high expectations from the outcome of your work because the Federal Ministry of Education has decided to demonstrate that we house the historically-acknowledged leaders of research, being the universities, who with our polytechnics and colleges of education, hold the task of redefining the path of Nigeria’s knowledge economy, without which we cannot be competitive at the global stage. “It is expected that your committee will fashion out the legal framework that will define the place of Research and Development (R&D) as the main parameter for measuring the strength and sustainability of our Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which size adds up to nothing without injection of knowledge through problem-solving research.” The minister said the committee, which is chaired by Prof. Auwal Yadudu, has four weeks to complete its assignment and produce a report to be considered by the ministry for “transmission to Federal Executive Council and expectedly, the National Assembly, that is to approve the Bill for presidential assent.” Executive Secretary of TETFund, Prof. Suleiman Bogoro, said the nation’s intellectuals must take up its responsibility by promoting ideas that would fast-track the development of Nigeria, particularly in the area of research and development. Bogoro said while the military is fighting insecurity and politicians are addressing the larger issues through constitutional amendment, intellectuals could chart a path for the nation. Bogoro, who doubles as convener of TETFund Research and Development Standing Committee (RDSC), expressed delight that the committee would churn out good draft proposals based on experience and vast knowledge of members. Yadudu promised that the assignment would be carried out with the utmost dedication and seriousness it deserves. The committee’s terms of reference include studying the master-plan document for the establishment of NRDF in Nigeria with a view to understanding its content; reviewing the current enabling law on research and development with a view to proposing a draft legislation to National Assembly on the establishment of NRDF, proposing areas of cross-cutting and cross-sectoral collaboration with relevant ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), and identifying other salient issues necessary for the overall success of NRDF in Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .