 5G mast                                                                                                                                                                                   Source The verge  Barring unforeseen circumstances, Nigeria’s final journey into the deployment of 5G technology should begin soonest, hopefully in another month.  The 5G Revolution
5G, which is the fifth-generation technology network, is the advanced form of 2G, 3G and 4G, which Nigeria currently operates. Large numbers of advanced countries of the world have adopted the 5G network, while others are considering its adoption in the next few years, because of its high connectivity speed that will drive new technologies like Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML) and Internet of Things (IoTs), among others.  Slow deployment in SSA, adoption ticks in five years
Despite its identified benefits, Ericsson Mobility Report for June 2021, showed that 5G network remains slow in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), but it is expected to tick in the region over the next few years.
  
Although 5G subscriptions were still below one per cent of total subscribers in SSA at the end of 2020, Ericsson expects “discernible volumes of 5G subscriptions” by 2022, reaching about seven per cent in 2026.  Nigeria’s Senate approves technology
After two trials conducted by MTN and Ericsson in 2019 with the supervision of the NCC, and misconceptions about the technology adequately dealt with, on May 18, Nigeria’s Upper Legislative Chamber, the Senate approved the deployment of the 5G network in Nigeria. This is following the outcome of investigations by a Joint Committee mandated to look into the Status of the 5G Network in Nigeria and its technological impact on Nigerian citizens.
   
The approval was sequel to the consideration and adoption of the report of Joint Committee on Communications, Science and Technology, ICT and Cyber Crimes, and Primary Health Care and Communicable Diseases, presented by the Chairman, Senator Oluremi Tinubu.  NCC reaches agreement on spectrum
Also in May, the NCC and Nigerian Communications Satellite (NigComSat) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that will facilitate the release of contiguous bandwidth in one of the most suitable frequencies spectrums bands for early deployment of 5G network services in Nigeria.  Spectrum auction begins soonest
Danbatta has inaugurated the 18-member Committee in Abuja, with NCC’s Executive Commissioner, Technical Services, Ubale Maska as Auction Adviser while the Director, Spectrum Administration, NCC, Oluwatoyin Asaju, is the Committee Chairman.
     
Speaking during the inauguration, Danbatta said, apart from developing the IM for auctioning of C-band spectrum for 5G deployment in Nigeria, the Terms of Reference (ToR) of the committee will include the development of an award process to be used pursuant to which the grant of Spectrum licenses may be made. The Information Memorandum (IM) defines the process that the Commission has decided to adopt for the auctioning of the 3.5GHz spectrum band. It will provide information on the Nigerian telecommunications market, details of the Spectrum to be made available, the pre-qualification process, the Auction process and indicative timetable. Other ToRs reeled out for the committee by Danbatta include, the auctioning of the C-band spectrum for 5G deployment in Nigeria in line with the award process; as well as reporting regularly/fortnightly to the EVC through the Office of the Executive Commissioner, Technical Services of the Commission on the progress made by the Committee. While expressing delight at the current stage of the 5G deployment process in Nigeria, especially with respect to established mutual understanding among stakeholders that 5G service poses neither security nor health risk to users, Danbatta said the outcome of the work of the Committee is a major step towards realisation of 5G services in Nigeria.  Going forward
The Chairman, ALTON, Gbenga Adebayo, said 5G remains a technology that the country should embrace.
  
According to Adebayo, if these technologies are not harnessed and embraced adequately in Nigeria, “neighbouring countries would adopt, and slow down our own progress. It will push Nigeria back because there is no kind of service you will need on the 5G networks that is not there. Globally, part of the progress made is the acceptance of technology as they evolve.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .