Dr Isa Ali Pantami The Federal Government has expressed commitment to the implementation of the National eGovernment master plan urging stakeholders to support the plan for the benefit of the people. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami stated this at a webinar, together with the Director General, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Mallam Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi, and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Digital Jewels Ltd, Ms Adedoyin Odunfa to commemorate NITDA’s 20th Anniversary. Pantami in his remarks, disclosed that a memo presented through the Head of Civil Service of the Federation before the Federal Executive Council on National Policy for virtual engagements in Federal Public institutions has been approved. He added that virtual engagements are now formal and institutionalized forms of engagements in Nigeria. “At the ministerial level in Nigeria, our responsibility is more on National Policy development and Policy supervision,” the Minister noted. Pantami stated that his focus was not just to have an active eGovernment but a secure one, which will gain the confidence of all Nigerians. He further disclosed that the National Digital Economic Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) which was developed for a digital Nigeria, has eGovernment as one of its pillars and secured through another pillar ‘Cybersecurity.” He noted that a subsidiary legislation of the Nigerian Data Protection Regulations (NDPR) which is a regulation that protects the privacy of data being implemented by NITDA, is one of the most effective initiatives of the current administration. “I led a team then that developed the first ever NDPR in order to give confidence to our citizens that any data under the government is secured, and we have been implementing this”, he added. Pantami mentioned that a series of eGovernment training have been organized where public and civil servants were trained on eGovernment. He said recently, the President has unveiled the National Cybersecurity Policy, and awareness is being created to all citizens on how to cautiously navigate the internet, which is a foundational strategy for eGovernment. “When you are online, you are exposed to so many challenges. We have been training citizens on cyber security not only at the federal and state levels but at local levels where training has been organized. From time to time, we issue advisory notes where citizens are being encouraged to take precautions on potential attacks,” the Minister stated. Abdullahi, while giving his remark said that NITDA has recalibrated and refocused her efforts on the implementation of the NDEPS. He disclosed that the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy unveiled the Agency’s Strategic Road Map and Action Plan which was a turning point for the Agency on digitalization of Nigeria. “As we push for a digital economy, it is imperative to build the confidence and trust of citizens for either government services or other private services,” the DG noted. He stated that the NITDA Strategic Roadmap and Action Plan 2021-2014 is anchored on seven strategic pillars; Developmental Regulations which focuses on indices needed to move Nigeria on the eGovernment Index. “Some of these regulations are regulatory instruments, guidelines and frameworks that prepare Nigeria for this journey”, the DG noted. He stated that the Agency issued the NDPR which was to help Nigerians understand data privacy and build confidence for people to use data services. “The regulations were innovative in the sense that apart from making sure we have a secure digital service, it also created an industry for our country. Data is the greatest resource in the digital economy,” he added. Abdullahi said that Digital Literacy is another pillar which focuses on capacity building of eGovernment services, noting that it is important to build people’s capacities on proficient use of digital services. He further stated that Digital Transformation is another pillar which uses digital technology for operational excellence in governance and to enhance transformational delivery of traditional government services. Abdullalhi stated that Emerging Technologies is a pillar which encourages citizens to develop and adopt strategies for emerging technologies. He said that some of the emerging technologies are foundational techs that cut across so many industries like the block chain, artificial intelligence and robotics. While making her presentation, Odunfa, said the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals has aligned with NITDA in the areas of poverty eradication, gender equality, industry, innovation and infrastructure among others. She disclosed that a survey on eGovernment development status was carried out in 193 United Nations Member States, which reflected the importance of eGovernment to sustain the Sustainable Goals. She categorically stated that if eGovernment is implemented effectively in any country, it will help in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Ms Odunfa noted that facilitating policies and services through eGovernment, Open government data for promoting effective & transparent institutions, eGovernment for policy integration and e-participation to promote participatory decision making and service delivery are key trends to be considered in eGovernment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .