Tunde Ogbeha APC ready for LG poll, says acting chairman The Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Senator Tunde Ogbeha, has promised to resolve the infighting rocking the party in the state and reposition it ahead of the 2023 general election. However, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state has declared its readiness for the coming local council election. Plateau PDP has been in crisis as a result of the state congress last year, thus polarising the party along Senators Jonah Jang and Jeremiah Useni camps. This led to multiple of litigations that made the National Working Committee (NWC) to set up a caretaker committee headed by Senator Tunde Ogbeha. After assuming office yesterday in Jos, Ogbeha told newsmen that the mandate of his committee was to put in place organs of the party at various levels in Plateau. “We are with the mindset of conducting state congress in a free and fair manner. We do not have any preferred candidate. Plateau is a PDP state, not minding the interim governance that is taking place, and we hope, with the local government election around the corner, no matter the hurdles before us, we can get all our councillors and chairmen elected. “We have been given three months to put all the relevant party structures in place. This will be followed by state congress, and we are here to do that job to the best of our ability,” he said. On the infighting among stakeholders of the party in the state, Ogbeha said there was no political party without internal friction because parties are made up of people of different backgrounds, adding that his committee could resolve any infighting. THE Acting Chairman of Plateau APC, Enoch Fanmak, said after addressing members of the party’s screening committees for the 17 local councils, yesterday: “APC is the dominant party in Plateau and is waxing stronger daily.” The Plateau State Independent Electoral Commission (PLASIEC) had scheduled local council elections in the state for October 2021. Fanmak further said that the party would provide a level-playing ground for all aspirants seeking ticket of the party to contest in the polls.He added that the people of Plateau were 100 per cent with the APC because of the good works of Governor Simon Lalong. The acting chairman called on members of the party to be peaceful and orderly during the screening exercise.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .