 Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura  A chieftain of the party, who craved anonymity, told The Guardian that contrary to notions in certain quarters that the lot might fall on Senator Tanko Al-Makura, there are moves to look towards the direction of his colleagues from Niger State. Former governors of Borno and Zamfara states, Ali Modu Sheriff and Abdulazeez Yari, are among chieftains of the party angling for the exalted seat of the party. Senators Sani Mohammed Musa, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi and Mohammed Bima Enagi from Niger State are being considered on the grounds that they are new breeds capable of sustaining the winning streaks of the party. According to the source, from all indications and the narratives going round, strategic blocs in the party show that the support base of two frontline aspirants in the person of a vocal serving senator and a former minister both from the North Central Zone are most likely to dominate the permutations for the race of who becomes the new national chairman of the party in the next national convention, which is coming up in few months. He added: “There are indications that the serving senator is said to be popular among young political class as he is versatile in managing the diversity and strength of both the old and new generation of politicians. He is against a society that grooms bad and inept leadership, which pundits believe can result in establishing bad governance. “His silence has created a challenge for older politicians and will be making it look tough in the coming days for the older hands-on how to deal with the dynamics of the permutations. “For the former minister, who was also a one-time member of the House of Representatives, the political environment may prove too difficult as pundits believe he would be used, and the fear is that it makes the party’s future uncertain. He is a good schemer in the game of party politics and within the macro environment, but when it comes to rally round the party leadership blocks and populace, he will face a herculean task to manage.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .