Abutu Yaro • Sets up monitoring unit to apprehend erring cops
• Uzodimma introduces insurance plan for slain police personnel The Imo State Commissioner of Police (CP), Abutu Yaro, yesterday, said the Command had arrested five policemen for alleged extortion of unsuspecting motorists and members of the public. Yaro disclosed this while fielding questions from some media practitioners in the Catholic-owned radio, Ozisa FM, in Owerri during a phone in/interactive programme. According to the CP, five of them were allegedly caught in the act, adding that they were in the police cell waiting to face further disciplinary action in line with the Police Act. Besides, he said that a monitoring unit had been set up to monitor activities of cops at checkpoints, urging motorists and members of the public to desist from offering bribe to policemen when they face them at any point. He, however, urged the people of the state to move about doing their legitimate businesses even at night, as there was no imposition of curfew in the state. Yaro promised to work together with the people of Imo State to fight crime and criminality frontally. MEANWHILE, Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, has introduced a policy that would insure the lives of personnel of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) in the state. Uzodimma disclosed this, yesterday, during his visit to the Police Command Headquarters in Owerri to commiserate with the NPF over loss of officers in the recent attacks by unknown gunmen in the state. The governor, who also presented six brand new operational security vehicles to the command during the visit, reiterated the administration’s commitment to rid the state of all forms of crime and criminality. He also charged the officers to up their game in tackling insecurity and restoring peace and stability in the state. He further said that a social welfare package would be launched to motivate police personnel and enhance their individual and collective service delivery. “I want to assure you that Imo State government will not let you do this work alone. Government will partner with the Nigerian police to ensure that the people sleep with their two eyes closed. “I want to extend my condolences to the immediate families of those officers who lost their lives during this ugly period. Government is putting together a programme that will encourage their children, wives and husbands,” Uzodimma said. Earlier in his remark, the state CP appreciated the governor for the visit, stressing that it would boost the morale of the officers to do their best. He said that through the governor’s support and gallant efforts of his men, peace and normalcy had been restored to the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .