 Olorunrinu  Comrade Kehinde Adeoye had on June 4, 2021 published in page 24 of The Guardian, that Olorunrinu still has a case with the Nigeria Police, Lagos on alleged possession of illegal fire arms and ammunition, since 2018, which amounts to him not being eligible to contest any election. Adeoye also alleged that Olorunrinu and his group fired gunshots at 512 Road, Festac Town, prior to May 29, 2021 APC primary and that the APC candidate, who claimed to have his root in ward C was seen in some other wards during voting hours, accompanied by hoodlums, an act which violates electoral guidelines. According to Olorunrinu’s counsel, Barr Chris Mosindi, the statements by Adeoye were totally out of place and calculated attempt to cause disaffection in the hearts of his constituents, who love and cherish Olorunrinu. In his words: “While it is true that Hon. Dipo Olorunrinu was invited by the Nigeria police to answer to allegations made against him for the possession of firearms, in line with the dictates of a civil society, he was charged before Chief Magistrate O. Akomolafe siting at Magistrate’s Court 5, Ebutte Metta, Lagos, where the charges were struck out.  Hon. Olorunrinu was accordingly discharged after the Department of Public Prosecution (DPP) duly issued a legal advice dated the April 23, 2019, with reference number LJP/MISC/2018/370/6; clearly stating that he had no case to answer with respect to the charges of illegal possession of firearms brought against him. “Hon. Olorunrinu, to the admiration of many is a law abiding citizen of Nigeria. He possesses a valid license to carry firearms, and the senseless allegations of shootings are all made up to cast aspersions on him, in a bid to tarnish his good image in the eyes of well meaning Nigerians. “Hon Olorunrinu has displayed immense sincerity of purpose as a political figure in Amuwo-Odofin, by taking the initiative to introduce and sustain people friendly programmes with a view to uplifting the common man.” Mosindi added that Olorunrinu has exhibited loyalty and commitment to the growth of APC within Amuwo-Odofin and beyond since he joined the party over two years ago. “Olorunrinu’s humanitarian programmes such as free school bus, economic support programmes for small and medium enterprises, petty traders, youth empowerment initiatives, good health and wellness programmes, for the Amuwo Odofin people are but a few laudable endeavours he has undertaken to ensure that the livelihood of the good people of Amuwo Odofin improves daily. “The demands by Comrade Adeoye, calling for the investigation of Hon. Olorunrinu, is both unfounded and wicked in the face of his baseless allegations that the charges against Hon. Olorunrinu were still pending in court, all in a bid to seek to discredit and have him disqualified from contesting the forthcoming local government elections. “It’s crystal clear that Hon Olorunrinu is the most qualified, preferred and credible candidate of APC in the forthcoming Local Government Council elections in Amuwo-Odofin, and he has the support of the common man to continue to achieve greatness for the good of all constituents of Amuwo-Odofin,” Mosindi declared.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .