Aderinokun Abiodun, Amosun describe late GTB founder as symbol of excellence
A new Guaranty Trust Training Complex has been opened in memory of late co-founder/ managing director, Tayo Aderinokun, exactly 10 years after the passing of the ace banker. The complex known as Tayo’s Complex, which former governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun, described as the tallest building in Abeokuta, was unveiled on Thursday, the same day the holding company of the institution Aderinokun toiled to build, Guarantee Trust Holdings, started trading at the stock exchange. The Centre, which includes 105 ensuite residential rooms, half a dozen lecture halls, two fully equipped libraries, an amphitheatre and a banking office serving as a regional headquarters of the bank, was unveiled by Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun and his predecessor, Amosun, alongside the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the bank, Segun Agbaje. The trio also joined the Aderinokuns and others in a brief memorial service for the celebrated banker. Abiodun, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and a friend of the late banker, Tokunbo Talabi, described the centre as “another sign of GTB culture excellence” which the late managing director worked hard to build. He said the institution started as “a risky venture” much as citing the eight-storey edifice in Abeokuta took off as a risky venture, which is serving as a part of the frontline projects that would transform the Abeokuta Central Business District (CBD). Abiodun said the success story of GTBank, being founded by hardworking young Nigerians in their 30s, spoke eloquently of the enormous capacity of the youths to transform Nigeria. Amosun, who commended the foresightedness of the bank, called on other intuitions with land allocation in the zone, taking a cue from Tayo’s Plaza unveiling. He said the centre represented the aspiration of the residents and the state government. Agbaje attributed the success of the bank to the commitment of Aderinokun and the unending search for knowledge, saying the learning centre was a befitting way to immortalize him. “Through our new training complex, we will continue to nurture and empower young people to think critically and break new grounds in excellence,” he promised. Aderinokun was one of Africa’s most influential and renowned bankers. Born in 1955, his passion for excellence, entrepreneurial acumen and dedication to service led to his co-founding of Guaranty Trust Bank in 1990. He became the managing director of the bank in August 2002, leading it to an enviable position of one of Nigeria’s best-managed financial institutions until his passing on June 14, 2011. Situated in the part of Abeokuta being developed as a CBD, Tayo’s Plaza houses a banking hall with 24 teller terminals amongst other facilities. All entrants to the financial institution will now be trained at Tayo’s Plaza, where they will undergo an intensive screening and extensive onboarding programme, the bank said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .