The impact of alternative and renewable energy on businesses can never be overemphasised as this represents a unique opportunity to meet climate goals while fueling economic growth, creating new employment opportunities and enhancing human welfare. This was the view of the Country Manager, Westa.Solar, Kolawole Akinboye, who stated that the firm has delivered a 500kw solar installation in Kano, to supply Cellopack Industries with almost a quarter of its energy needs as well as improve its resilience against frequent power outages. According to reports, Nigeria has an electrification rate of 45 per cent and despite this relatively low figure in conjunction with the significant issues undermining power supply in the country, demand for electricity keeps increasing, especially from the commercial and industrial business sectors. Against this backdrop, independent power producer in the renewable energy sector, RP Global has called for an economic improvement in modern businesses through renewable energy. RP Global, a renewable energy developer and investor, and OOLU, a leader in energy access solutions in West Africa have come together to launch Westa.Solar, a commercial and industrial (C&I) solar venture in the sub-region to address the energy need in this market. “This is the first of what we hope to be many solar power projects for our C&I company in Nigeria. It will enable the company to minimize its reliance on diesel generators, thereby reducing both its overall energy costs and carbon footprint. “This Solar PV installation is projected to help Cellopack generate savings of over N235 million over the next 10 years and support its long-term growth ambitions,” Kolawole explained. “Our solar hybrid systems are a great solution for businesses with high energy needs. Ranging from 50kW to 5MW, our systems are fully customized to meet client demand. By providing a reliable supply at a competitive price, we offer greater financial predictability and contribute to decarbonizing the Nigerian energy mix,” he added. Kolawole also noted that alternative and renewable energy is one of the reliable ways to ensure business growth and clean energy for Nigerian modern businesses. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .