 Youths during an e-learning session<br />  Absence Of e-Learning Infrastructure Hobbling Learning In Emergency Situations
WITHOUT a doubt, disruptions to the school’s calendar come with a heavy price, including socio-economic dislocations. Just as many are trying to overcome the consequences of the pandemic, there are growing fears that the North, already disadvantaged with hosting the highest amount of out-of-school children in the world, is playing with a ticking time bomb, especially with the recent closure of at least 618 schools over banditry and abduction scare. States affected by the bedlam include Yobe, Zamfara, Niger, Katsina, Kano, Jigawa and Sokoto.  Nigeria Strategising To Become An e-Learning Nation
DESPITE the enormous grounds that the country has to cover, the Federal Government is hopeful that efforts at mainstreaming and fully integrating e-learning into the education milieu would eventually pay off, especially with steps that the government is taking. According to the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu: “In life, anything at the starting point is always a difficult journey, but we can’t shy away from starting because there are obstacles. We have to make a start and see the obstacles that are there, grapple with them, and get over them in no distant time.” Adamu, who spoke through the Director, Press and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Education, Mr. Ben Bem Goong said: “When JAMB started talking about Computer-based Test (CBT), everybody thought it wasn’t going to work in this country. But today, CBT is running smoothly. I believe that the power situation is improving; we may have breakdowns occasionally, but overall it is very clear to everyone in Nigeria that the power situation is improving. As it is improving, some of these infrastructures would be provided and our children will key in and do their homeschooling smoothly. Homeschooling is going to become popular in this country because of the e-learning facility we are introducing. “A lot of private companies are introducing e-learning facilities, and you would also recall that last year when COVID-19 was hitting hard we got assistance from six e-learning platforms, and a large number of children benefitted from that. We have started and we will see how we are going to tinker with whatever challenges that we have to perfect the system. I see Nigeria becoming an e-learning nation in the next five years.” He continued: “The fact of the matter is that our own responsibility is largely about delivery of the education curriculum; we do not have all of that which is required for e-learning to be provided by the Ministry of Education. Take the issue of power for example; it is not for our ministry to provide power, but the Nigerian government is not resting on its oars, steps are taking on a day-to-day basis and things are improving. It is unfortunate that Nigerians do not sometimes appreciate what we have, but I tell you, the government is doing a lot, and off-grid power systems are coming up. If you go to so many villages today, you will be shocked to see that there are many solar systems everywhere. There is improvement and we are geared to do more,” he stressed. Still stressing that not everything that is required for e-learning is under the ambit of the Federal Ministry of Education, Goong explained, “ours is essential delivery. Of cause infrastructural development such as classrooms, laboratories and all that are part of our responsibility, but there are aspects that are not within our responsibility to provide, but our sister organisations like the Federal Ministry of Power, Ministry of Communication and together, we will get there.” Time To Embrace Technology Is Now
PROVIDING a platform that provides curriculum-based educational aid and resources for pupils and students from primary one to senior secondary three (SS3), some stakeholders admit, is a good takeoff point as far as the move to democratise knowledge, and curb urban-rural learning disparities is concerned.
  
According to education consultant and professional leadership mentor/coach, Mrs. Toyin Sam-Emehelu: “I must say this is a laudable step in the right direction. However, the issue of quality, standardisation, proper implementation and evaluation of this initiative must be looked into through data-driven research and case studies to measure its pros and cons so as to be able to make informed decisions going forward. But what we should be most concerned about is to properly measure how learning gaps are being closed, and how effective the intervention turns out regarding the quality of teaching, and learning.”
  
Mr. Israel Abatan, Primary Coordinator, Mind Builders School, Lagos, also described the initiative as a good start and a step in the right direction but is quick to state that the audio platform has its limitations.
  
“An audio e-learning platform can only teach in abstract, and one cannot compare the end result with teaching students through platforms like ZOOM, or any of the other interactive platforms, where the teacher will be able to see all his/her students at once and interact with them. Using ZOOM as an example, a teacher can engage the students individually in an interactive session, but the audio e-learning platform does not have such facilities. Still using this platform, the teacher can share slides of instructional materials with the students and also share related videos with his/her students, while students are also able to ask questions and get an instant explanation. Asking questions or send them to the teacher using the chatbox all combine to make learning more interesting, and help students not just to memorise concepts, but also to be able to fully understand concepts taught and apply same to real-life situations.”  Unsatisfied with the present state of things, Abatan continued: “Until we begin to have young and dynamic ‘digital natives at the helm of affairs in government; people who have passed through and benefitted from the online mode of learning, we may still have to live with these challenges for a few more years. He continued: “Without mincing words, I really feel bad when I consider the government attitude towards online learning in most of our public schools. The gap between private schools and public schools in this regard is getting wider by the day. Should the government suddenly decide to completely shift to online mode of learning, it will have a lot of issues to contend with. First, some of the teachers who are presently teaching in public schools will lose their jobs because they will not be able to cope with the challenges of online mode of learning. I, therefore suggest that the government should take the bull by the horns now and begin to expose all our public schools’ teachers to proficiency courses in the online mode of teaching because, whether we like it or not, we are now in a new normal when every teacher must be well equipped for online mode of teaching.”
  
For public schools teachers that are willing to prepare themselves for the task ahead, Abatan said:  “There are many available options but the easiest option I want to recommend is to learn how to make use of Google Classroom, ZOOM, and Microsoft Teams. They can start by learning how to use these simple packages. I wish to reiterate that teachers in public schools should begin to adopt the ‘Do it Yourself’ strategies, rather than wait endlessly for the government to come around to train them.
 
“Secondly, for those who can afford the cost, there are many certified computer institutes in town where teachers can get trained and certified in some of these courses, but this option is a bit expensive.  Face-to-face Learning Still A Cherished Approach
BECAUSE of their insatiable appetite for smart hand-held gadgets, including mobile phones, phablets iPads and the likes, many may be tempted to believe that all students would fall heads over heels in love with online/e-classes, but that has not exactly been the case. And the trio of Effiong, Abatan and Sam-Emehelu differ on why some students still have reservations about online learning.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .