 Senator Rabiu  Kwankwaso  Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has broken his silence on a viral picture on social media where he was captured marching on the image of his predecessor, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso. He clarified that the act was unintentional and unpremeditated, saying his respect for Kwankwaso and other political leaders remained undaunted. In a statement signed by the Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, the governor declared that no matter his political differences with opposition politicians, it had never been in his character to belittle any political leader. Ganduje was caught in the act during an extended political gathering marking the Democracy Day where he received Kwankwasiyya loyalists to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The development had since drawn reaction from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with the exchange of unprinted words from party loyalists. ALSO, Ganduje has reaffirmed his dexterity to remain inactive politics, a trade he ventured into some 43 years ago. The 72-year-old political gladiator, who declared readiness to forge ahead with his political career after his eight years in office as governor, differed with the position of Governor Aminu Masari, who pledged to retire from active politics after his tenure in office. Fielding questions from members of the Correspondents Chapel at Government House yesterday, he stressed that he would remain relevant in national politics after 2023. MEANWHILE, the state government has declared Tamburawa in Dawakin Kudu Local Council as planning location for the citing of the proposed gas industrial layout under the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC’s) Ajaokuta–Kaduna–Kano pipeline project. The state government was given the approval to set up the NNPC-AKK Pipeline Project Delivery and Gas Industrialisation Committee (KNSG-PDIC) along Tamburawa adjacent to Challawa Water Works where the Kano/AKK Terminal Gas station was to be built. The Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, gave the brief while briefing journalists on the outcome of the weekly State Executive Council (SEC) meeting yesterday. Garba stated that while a draft of the proposed layout had been produced, the council directed the state’s Bureau for Land Management to liaise with the committee and come up with final documents for the new industrial layout. The commissioner also revealed that the council had ratified the award of contract for the reconstruction of Challawa Industrial Layout Road network at the cost of N393,237,697.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .