 [FILES] INEC Enugu office attacked  According to the group, if the destruction of the facilities of INEC and police continues in the South East or South South, then the central government can opt for self-perpetuation in office through tenure extension, relying on section 135 (3) of the 1999 Constitution. In a statement made available to The Guardian yesterday, HURIWA asserted that it was becoming clearer that the agenda might be tenure elongation as a result of eventual state of emergency that might be declared by President Muhammadu Buhari as alleged. It also condemned the reported killing of innocent Igbo youths following the discovery of 33 unidentified corpses at the Federal Medical Centre Owerri. The rights group said it was unconstitutional for soldiers and police to be arresting and killing innocent youngsters, instead of going after gunmen. “We are worried by the reports of killings of many innocent young people by the soldiers and police, whereas the unknown gunmen are actually seen operating unhindered, which goes to show that the activities of these attackers may be the handiwork of enemies of the South East and persons who are working for key persons in the central government to create chaos and anarchy to guarantee the postponement of the 2023 general elections,” the group stated. It, therefore, called for independent investigation by a high-powered judicial commission into the matter. HURIWA noted that Section 135(3) of the Constitution says: “If the federation is at war in which Nigeria is physically involved and the President considers that it is not practicable to hold elections, the National Assembly may, by resolution, extend the period of four years.” Urging officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security forces to demonstrate to Nigerians that they were not part of the larger plots to extend the tenure of any public office holder, it challenged the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, to partner with security forces to protect their strategic national assets in all parts of Nigeria. “By the way, INEC conducted 2019 elections in Yobe and Borno states amid Boko Haram attacks. Why is INEC already raising the alarm that 2023 poll may be marred? INEC must not be allowed to push Nigeria into a state of civil war,” added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .