Adebayo Adeleye files out for a league game with Israeli club aside Hapoel Jerusalem. The 22-year-old now has his sights set on a Super Eagles call-up. Photo: Twitter Hapoel Jerusalem goalkeeper, Adebayo Adeleye, believes Nigeria is blessed with enough talents to take on the rest of Africa and win a fourth Africa Cup of Nations title at the forthcoming AFCON in Cameroon. The Super Eagles have won three AFCON titles to date, with the first coming in 1980, followed by another in 1994, before conquering Africa yet again in 2013. It will be eight years since the team last won the continent’s top football prize by the time the tournament gets underway in Cameroon on January 9, 2022, but Adeleye believes this generation of Super Eagles players have what it takes to conquer the continent in Cameroon. The former Nigeria junior international hinged his belief on the quality of players yearning to defend the country’s flag, adding that Nigeria’s quest to rule Africa once again can become a reality considering Gernot Rohr’s technical savvy. Adeleye then showered compliments on the Super Eagles manager for giving lots of players the much-needed opportunity to showcase their talents in friendly matches, adding that Rohr’s insistence on testing different players should be applauded by all as the Franco-German coach continues in his quest to build a crack side for the AFCON. “Rohr has done a lot to help Nigerian football and I strongly believe his rebuilding process is beginning to yield positive fruits,” said the goalkeeper in an interview with The Guardian. “He gave lots of players the chance to showcase their talents in friendly matches too. “He needs our support and l feel Nigeria has the talent to take on the rest of Africa in Cameroon next year.” Speaking on his dream of playing for the Super Eagles, the 21-year-old vowed to keep working round the clock to earn a national team call-up. Adeleye, who has teamed up with his club for pre-season, added that the Israeli league has reshaped his goalkeeping skills over the years and that Nigeria should be ready to see him at his best next season when his club rubs shoulders with the heavyweights of Israeli football. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .