 [FILES] Mai Mala Buni. Photo: TWITTER/BUNIMEDIA  The committee, which had toured the country’s six geopolitical zones and held meetings with party stakeholders, is billed to hold a retreat, where submissions from across the country will be reviewed and endorsed.  WITHIN the one year of its existence, the Buni committee deployed a combination of reconciliation, consultation and inclusiveness in achieving unity and cohesion in the party. The committee also ensured the inauguration of the tripartite Executive/Legislative/APC Consultative Committee to ensure synergy, good governance and accelerated implementation of the Next Level agenda of the Buhari administration.
 
Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON) and APC chieftain, Mr. Osita Okechukwu, expressed satisfaction with the performance of the Buni committee. He said: “On the assessment of His Excellency M.M.Buni’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC); it is like assessing a rehabilitation team after a major inferno in a market.  “We are mindful that our party must be strong, we just welcome the governor of Cross-River state, assuming there were congresses, how will you accommodate him.  We are also doing a lot of things you might not be aware of, but be rest assured that the overall interest of this party is paramount.”
 
Ruling out the possibility of an outbreak of crisis to protest further delay in conducting the national convention, the party scribe stated: “There are no crises in our party. Convention can be done in June, Congresses can start in June and end in June, it depends on what leaders of this party agree upon. Do not bring speculations.
   
“This committee is honest, we have never lied to members, for instance, now like we are coming to brief you. If you have a problem in your family and you are trying to solve it, will you come and tell them public that you are fighting with your mother or father or you are doing this or that. Family issue is a family issue.”
 
He disclosed that the membership registration and revalidation exercise had been concluded, adding that the committee saddled with the conduct of the exercise had turned in collated results from 21 states of the federation.
 
The CECPC’s position implies that President Buhari, in conjunction with key stakeholders of the party would be prevailed upon to grant another six months extension for the Buni led-committee. Conversely, a group of concerned APC faithful led by Abdullahi Dauda had in December last year faulted the continued extension of CECPC tenure, arguing that it was in breach of the party constitution. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .