Download logo Hyve Group Plc, organisers of Africa Oil Week (www.Africa-OilWeek.com) have released the first line-up of Ministers who will be attending the 2021 event due to take place in Dubai 8-11 November.  The initial line-up consists of two former African Presidents, Commissioner for the African Union Commission, Secretary General for AfCFTA and Ministers from Ethiopia, Kenya, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Republic of Congo, Gambia, Mali, Burkina Faso and Djibouti. This initial line-up suggests government presence at Africa Oil Week 2021 will be as strong as ever.  Paul Sinclair, VP of Energy and Government Relations for Africa Oil Week said “Governments are an integral part of Africa Oil Week and we are delighted to be able to provide the sector with much needed direct access to these leaders. Discussions onsite will take the form of 15+ National Energy Showcases, ministerial panel discussions and pre-arranged 1-2-1 meetings and will help to drive investment and advance energy projects in to, and across Africa.”  Africa Oil Week is known for gathering vast numbers of African and international energy ministers and acts as a deal-making platform for the most senior stakeholders within the African upstream industry.  Foday Mansaray, Director General for Sierra Leone’s Petroleum Directorate who has also confirmed his participation said “We are very much looking forward to attending Africa Oil Week in Dubai in November. We look forward to participating in the event and presenting opportunities that Sierra Leone has.”  To date, the following Ministers and government leaders have been announced to attend Africa Oil Week 2021:
H.E. Olusegun Obasanjo, Former President of Nigeria
H.E. Dr. Peter Arthur Mutharika, Former President of Malawi
H.E. Amani Abou-Zeid, Commissioner for Infrastructure and Energy, African Union Commission
H.E Wamkele Keabetswe Mene, Secretary General of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA)
Hon. Jean-Marc Thystere Tchicaya, Minister of Hydrocarbons, Republic of Congo
Hon. Abdirashiid Mohamed Ahmed, Minister of Petroleum & Mineral Resources, Republic of Somalia
Hon. Timothy Kabba, Minister of Mineral Resources, Republic of Sierra Leone
Hon. Hon. John Munyes, Cabinet Sec Ministry of Petroleum & Mining, Republic of Kenya
Hon. Dr. Koang Tutlam, State Minister of Mines, Petroleum & Natural Gas, Republic of Ethiopia
Hon. Fafa Sayang, Minister of Energy and Petroleum, Republic of Gambia
Hon. Lamine Seydou Traore, Minister of Energy and Water, Republic of Mali
Hon. Bachir Ismael, Minister of Energy, Republic of Burkina Faso
Hon. Yonis Ali Guedi, Minister of Energy, Republic of Djibouti
Atty. Saifuah-Mai Gray, CEO, National Oil Company of Liberia
Hon. Archie Donmo, Director General, Liberia Petroleum Regulatory Authority
Francis Gatare, CEO, Rwanda Mining Petroleum and Gas Board
Proscovia Nabbanja, Ag. Chief Executive Officer, Uganda National Oil Company
Ms. Asha Omar, CEO, Somalia Petroleum Authority
Foday Mansaray, Director General, Petroleum Directorate of Sierra Leone
Maixent Raoul Ominga, Head, SNPC, Republic of Congo
Jerreh Barrow, Commissioner for Petroleum, Ministry of Petroleum & Energy, Republic of Gambia
Dr. Solomon Kassa, Director for Petroleum Exploration, Ministry of Mines and Petroleum, Republic of Ethiopia
Ibrahim Djamous, Director Gen Hydrocarbon, SHT, Republic of Chad
Mr. Famourou Kourouma, Director General ONAP, Republic of Guinea
Alem Kibreab, Director General of the Department of Mines at the Ministry of Energy and Mines, Eritrea  For more information on the Ministers and government leaders attending, please click here (https://bit.ly/35KOz7M). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Oil Week. For more information please contact:
On behalf of Africa Oil Week
Abbie Coonan
Email: abbie.coonan@hyve.group About Africa Oil Week:
Africa Oil Week is the meeting place of choice for the continent’s upstream oil and gas sector. Now entering its 27th year, the event brings together governments, national and international oil companies, independents, investors, the G&G community and service providers.