Akeredolu. Photo: TWITTER/ONDOSTATEAPC Tension has mounted across the 18 local councils of Ondo State as the Appeal Court, Akure Division, is set to deliver judgment on the October 10, 2020 governorship election in the state today. The Guardian gathered that there was a political scheme by some persons to oust Akeredolu out of office with plan to manipulate the court judgment against him. According to a source from Abuja, who pleaded anonymity, there is an alleged move to shift the date from today to yet unknown date. It was said to be part of the plan to perfect their game. This is coming on the heels of an allegation that a minister, in conjunction with a serving governor from the North, has been mounting pressure on the panel to shift the date. The source added that senior member of the Bench from the North-West is said to be liaising between the trio, led by the minister and another member of the appeal panel. It was unclear if the chairman, Justice Orji-Abadua, has been personally reached to change judgment date. A source revealed that the move to influence the judgment came after series of alleged meetings between the national leadership of the umbrella body of Fulani cattle breeders, Miyetti Allah and the North-East governor, who is believed to be close to Jegede. MEANWHILE, Chairman of Ondo State Chapter of Miyetti Allah, Alhaji Garuba Bello, has denied the involvement of the Fulani group in the allegations against the group to oust the incumbent governor, saying there was no political relationship with Jegede. “That is a big lie. Miyetti Allah does not have the capability to say we don’t want a particular governor. No one can make that kind of decision in Miyetti Allah, even from the national level to state level,” Bello said. SIMILARLY, the state PDP Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kennedy Peretei, said: “It is not true. It is the APC and Akeredolu camp that are trying to mount pressure on the panel through the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN).” ALSO, a constitutional lawyer, Mr. Boluwade Ajayi, noted that it is not out of place for the court to postpone the judgment if there are cogent reasons to do so. Ajayi, however, said that it would be highly prejudicial to do so at the expense of any of the parties involved in the case, saying it will not only serve as a bad precedent but also detrimental to the sanctity and temple of justice.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .