 Contestants  Just recently, he was nominated for the prestigious ‘Rock n Roll’ hall of fame, which is a global holy grail of the musical hall of fame.
  
From Kalakuta to the world, to Kalakuta to Nigerians, these Idol aspirants became animated into a modern-day Fela Kuti with wigs and weaves, and RnB falsettos and whatnot, delivering an exciting and commendable tribute to the respected music legend. These finalists, in preparation for their performances, were taken during the week to the birthmark of Afrobeat itself, Kalakuta Museum, where they were groomed by the Grammy-nominated musician and an undisputable Fela carbon-copy, Seun Kuti, who took them through the philosophy, backstories and even rehearsals of the songs.  Fantastic Faith took his performance as a personal palaver between himself and Fela Kuti, as he delivered a strong performance of Fela’s 1972 hit, Trouble Sleep Yanga Go Wake Am, while Francis carried on boldly with the normal happiness-fever that comes with performing Fela’s ’71 record, Yellow Fever, with some backing from the live band. Emmanuel settled with No Agreement, which spurred all three judges to their feet in positive acclaim.
  
Each of the performances ushered in the nostalgia of the great Fela Kuti era, as all the songs rang through the minds of listeners with depth. Most of Fela’s songs condemned colonialism, or commented on corruption within the Nigerian polity, or even just directly tried to uplift self-esteem. The contestants claimed that they selected these specific tracks to speak about issues they connected with.
  
Like when the show first honored African legends such as Angelique Kidjo, Majek Fashek, Victor Uwaifo, Prince Nico Mbarga, Salif Keita, Lucky Dube and Miriam Makeba, a few weeks ago, this Fela-themed tribute was a timely and unforgettable point of the show. It would be nice to see the show take on other ‘Nigerian Idols’ who have actually snoozed out of the scene, from the 60s to date. Names such as Salawa Abeni, Christy Essien Igbokwe, Osita Osadebe, Ebenezer Obey and even Pasuma, would be interesting indigenous renditions to see.