The Weeknd To Star In And Co-Create HBO Drama Series ‘The Idol’ Image GQ Abel Tesfaye, aka The Weeknd, is set to star in and co-create an HBO drama series titled ‘The Idol‘ from ‘Euphoria’ creator, Sam Levinson. The series is set to follow a singer in Los Angeles who begins an illicit romance with a nightlife owner who is the secret leader of an underground cult according to a report by Forbes. Tesfaye has some minor TV writing experience through TBS’ American Dad! that premiered last year, he also appeared as the headliner in the Super Bowl halftime show earlier in 2021. The Idol links Levinson with another Toronto musical icon in the TV business after he worked with Drake on Zendaya-starring Euphoria in 2019 for which the Spider-Man: Far From Home actor won an Emmy. Joseph Epstein will serve as a showrunner and writer on the project. Ashley Levinson, Kevin Turen, and Aaron L. Gilbert will co-executive produce with Sam Levinson, Tesfaye, and Rahim. The Weeknd, whose real name is Abel Tesfaye, has sold tens of millions of albums worldwide, with hits like “Can’t Feel My Face,” “Starboy” and last year’s “Blinding Lights.” His song for the Fifty Shades of Grey soundtrack, “Earned It,” received an Oscar nomination for Best Original Song in 2016. He also performed at the Super Bowl halftime show earlier this year. The Weeknd has won many accolades, including three Grammy Awards, five American Music Awards, nineteen Billboard Music Awards, two MTV Video Music Awards, fifteen Juno Awards, five SOCAN awards, and one Brit Award, and has been nominated for an Academy Award. He holds several chart records, being the first artist to simultaneously hold the top three positions on the Billboard Hot R&B Songs chart with “Can’t Feel My Face”, “Earned It”, and “The Hills”. In February 2015, he was awarded the Allan Slaight Award by Canada’s Walk of Fame. In 2017, he was featured on the cover of Forbes for his annual earnings of $92 million. Elton John listed him as one of the 100 Most Influential People of 2020 in Time. Now, he can add TV Star to his numerous accolades.