The Cherie Blair Foundation for Women, DHL Express and AWIEF (www.AWIEForum.org) are today launching a ground-breaking partnership to bring vital entrepreneurial skills and support to women across South Africa.  The Cherie Blair Foundation for Women’s HerVenture mobile learning app has been developed specifically for women who own micro, small and medium sized enterprises in low and middle income countries. The app is currently available in Vietnam, Indonesia, Nigeria and Kenya, having supported over 41,000 women since its launch in 2018. Now, thanks to support from DHL Express, it comes to South Africa, available for free to women across the country so they can grow their businesses.  This vital initiative comes at a crucial time: COVID-19 has drastically changed the way women entrepreneurs everywhere live and work, pushing them further into a digital world. For their businesses to survive, these women must be equipped with the knowledge and resources to move online, so the Foundation has added new learning modules to Her Venture in digital marketing and e-commerce, supporting women to navigate the ‘new normal’.  Supporting the growth of women-owned enterprises provides South Africa with an important opportunity to generate sustainable economic livelihoods, reduce poverty and grow the economy, according to a 2019 report by the Small Enterprise Development Agency (SEDA), ‘Women and Youth Owned SMMEs: The Status, Needs, Challenges and Opportunities in South Africa’. Of all SMEs in South Africa, 47% (529,000) are owned by women; delivered through in-country partner AWIEF, HerVenture aims to reach at least 1,600 of these women entrepreneurs by the end of October 2021. The enhanced knowledge it offers means greater business success for women across the country, bringing huge benefits to families, local communities and the economy.  “Sub-Saharan African economies lose nearly $100 billion a year because of the gender gap in the labour market and the current COVID-19 crisis is exacerbating many existing inequalities the women entrepreneurs we work with already face. Following HerVenture’s positive impacts on tens of thousands of women’s businesses in Nigeria and Kenya, as well as Vietnam and Indonesia, we are delighted to bring our flagship app to South Africa. By partnering with businesses like DHL and expert local organisations like AWIEF, we can support women entrepreneurs in South Africa and beyond to fulfil their potential and make progress towards our shared goal of closing the gender gap in economic participation.” – Emily Scott, Director of Programmes, the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women  “Research has shown that there are more women entrepreneurs than men in Sub-Saharan Africa, yet opportunities to scale, access to funding and training for women-led businesses on the continent remain disproportional. Our purpose at DHL is ‘Connecting people and improving lives’. Equality and inclusion remain key priorities for us as an organisation, therefore our partnership with the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women is an important step in supporting women-owned businesses, as they are a vital component of economic growth, resulting in increased jobs which yield a greater impact within the communities in which they operate. The launch of the HerVenture app in South Africa is intended to reach 1,600 women-led businesses (at no cost to them) in South Africa by the end of October 2021. Women make up 58% of Africa’s self-employed population, and through HerVenture these businesses will receive the necessary digital and technological skills development to future proof their businesses.” – Hennie Heymans, CEO, DHL Express Sub Saharan Africa.  “Our exciting partnership with the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women and DHL will surely take us to new heights in the women’s economic advancement and empowerment space in South Africa. The HerVenture app’s new launch creates a great opportunity for women entrepreneurs of small and growing businesses to tap into and further expand their entrepreneurial skills and mindset, enabling them to start and scale their businesses in a sustainable manner. We are very thrilled about this new collaboration, and eager to witness the new app’s lasting positive impact on women entrepreneurs.” – Irene Ochem, Founder and CEO, AWIEF  “Since I started this business, my life has changed. I’m able to put food on the table thanks to it, but it’s been hard during COVID. My husband has lost his job, and it’s not as well stocked in my shop as it was before. I have learned how to improve my business though the HerVenture app, for example I now buy goods from the rural areas for a cheaper price, and I have established a network, something I did not think of doing before. With the app I feel that I can continue doing business, even during COVID.” – Asilia Otieno, grocery shop owner and HerVenture app user, Nairobi, Kenya Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Women Innovation and Entrepreneurship Forum (AWIEF). About HerVenture:
HerVenture is the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women’s mobile learning app. It provides women entrepreneurs of small and growing businesses with the knowledge, skills and confidence needed to successfully grow their enterprises. HerVenture offers essential business training and support ‘on the go’. It features eight learning ‘tracks’ on a range of topics, including launching a business, accessing finance, expanding market access and e-commerce. Based on user’s responses to questions about their business needs, the app generates a personalised learning journey to meet the interests of each entrepreneur. Learning content is provided in bite-sized, easily digestible formats such as swipe-able cards and quizzes, and can also be accessed offline. The app also allows users to find and connect with each other, as well as learn about local business events. HerVenture is highly scalable and can be adapted to any geography or language. It is currently available for free on iOS and Android platforms in Vietnam, Indonesia, Kenya, South Africa and Nigeria, with plans to expand further. Since its initial development in 2018, the app has been further enhanced with support from Qualcomm® Wireless Reach™, Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the Happel Foundation, the Allan and Nesta Ferguson Charitable Trust, the Swedish Postcode Foundation, ExxonMobil Foundation, USAID and DHL. www.HerVenture.org About the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women:
The Cherie Blair Foundation for Women helps release the potential of women entrepreneurs in low and middle income countries, and close the global gender gap in entrepreneurship. Since the Foundation’s inception in 2008, it has directly supported over 175,000 women across more than 100 countries. Through its combined approach of programmatic delivery and advocacy, the Foundation supports women to start and grow successful micro, small and medium businesses, with training, technology, mentoring and networking at the heart of its work. This opens doors to finance, markets, contacts and more, and supports women to create better futures for themselves and their families, enable their communities to prosper, contribute to strong economies, and move the world in a whole new direction. www.CherieBlairFoundation.org
www.twitter.com/cherieblairfndn
www.twitter.com/cbfwmentoring 
www.facebook.com/cherieblairfoundation About DHL:
DHL – The logistics company for the world Deutsche Post DHL Group (www.DPDHL.com) is the world’s leading logistic company. The Group connects people and markets and is an enabler of global trade. It aspires to be the first choice for customers, employees and investors worldwide. To this end, Deutsche Post DHL Group is focusing on growth in its profitable core logistics businesses and accelerating the digital transformation in all business divisions. The Group contributes to the world through sustainable business practices, corporate citizenship and environmental activities. By the year 2050, Deutsche Post DHL Group aims to achieve zero emissions logistics. Deutsche Post DHL Group is home to two strong brands: DHL offers a comprehensive range of parcel and international express service, freight transport, and supply chain management services, as well as e-commerce logistics solutions. Deutsche Post is Europe’s leading postal and parcel service provider. Deutsche Post DHL Group employs approximately 570,000 people in over 220 countries and territories worldwide. The Group generated revenues of more than 66 billion Euros in 2020. About AWIEF:
The Africa Women Innovation and Entrepreneurship Forum (AWIEF) (www.AWIEForum.org) is a pan-African women economic empowerment organisation which promotes women innovation and empowers women entrepreneurs in Africa to grow their business. AWIEF helps female entrepreneurs by providing knowledge, practical training, resources and connections through their enterprise development programmes, conference and networking events, and the online AWIEF Community. AWIEF gives women entrepreneurs all the tools to grow, fulfil their potential and contribute to Africa’s economic development. www.AWIEForum.org/
www.facebook.com/awieforum
www.linkedin.com/company/awieforum
https://twitter.com/awieforum
www.instagram.com/awieforum/ To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .