 George Moghalu  Barely 20 days to the governorship primaries of opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC), the much-anticipated plan by a coalition of Anambra State billionaire business moguls to rally around a consensus candidate in the November 6, 2021 governorship poll seems to have run into a hitch.  The source disclosed that the lack of unanimity among the ‘political investors’ was also informed by the declining popularity of zoning as a basis for selecting the consensus candidate, adding that the prevailing mood in the state is that the best candidate with workable ideas should be supported to succeed Governor Willie Obiano.
 
The billionaire Pharmaceutical merchant, who is also from Anambra South Senatorial zone, said the state has gone beyond the base sentiment of zoning, stressing that what the group wants to do is to stand aside and watch the processes in APGA, PDP and APC before throwing in their funds.
 
“We have a meeting later today, when we converge, it would be to chart the way forward and that path would not be far from waiting till after June 26 to explore further areas of collaboration to ensure that Anambra gets it right this time around,” he added. Between Zoning, Competence
WHAT sounded as the final death knell on the issue of zoning in Anambra State came last week shortly after a group of 12 aspirants met and endorsed their stance on zoning, contending that it was the turn of the district to produce the next governor.
 
However, not long after the 12 pro-zoning aspirants handed out their resolution then a former governor of the state, Chief Chukwuemeka Ezeife, perforated their arguments, remarking that it was a product of bad faith.
   
Ezeife, fondly called Okwadike, has been a strong advocate of merit in the leadership selection process. Despite the fact that he hails from Anambra South, Ezeife, in a statement dismissed the banding together of the aspirants, insisting that any eligible person from the state could participate in the poll not minding his or her senatorial district.  Big Players
WHILE perceived feeble aspirants are hankering after zoning and consensus, some big players and strategic contenders are devising prodigious schemes to carry the day.
   
Two families, Uba and Etiaba, are fielding candidates in both PDP and APC. But, while the Etiabas-Emeka and Ben- are relatively new to the power politics before their mother, Dame Virgy, deputised Mr. Peter Obi as governor, the Ubas-Andy and Ugochukwu, are electoral battle-tested players.
 
It could be this experience that explains the sudden front row position of Dr. Ugochukwu Bertram Uba on the platform of PDP. Sources disclosed that with the way things are playing out in both APC and PDP, the two Uba brothers would not miss out completely on the ballot come November 6.  Intellectual Rivalry
PERHAPS to accentuate the intellectual rigour being sought in the next governor of Anambra State, two contenders, Okonkwo and Val Ozigbo mounted the podia within the week to sell their candidacy and demonstrate the capacity to lead the state.
   
While Ozigbo was at the Emmaus House, Awka to address a town hall meeting attended by PDP delegates, Okonkwo delivered a lead paper at the maiden Dr. Michael I. Okpara Leadership Lecture at Sheraton Hotels, Abuja.  “It is about a new leadership that makes a difference. Despite the pervading gloom, a new dawn will emerge and the Southeast and Nigeria will fulfil their promise. Hope springs eternal.”
 
He reiterated his determination to “make a positive impact on Anambra lives and lift our state from the poor level of governance, where it has been brought to and offer a new meaning to leadership.”  “Our current situation is the repercussion of bad leadership at all levels. This election presents an opportunity to begin a rebuilding process for the people of Anambra, and we must grab it with both hands.”
   
Ozigbo charged the delegates to use their votes at the primaries to ensure that the PDP is ready for the election, reminding them, “You, as delegates, play a demanding role of showing the people that the PDP is ready for the ballot. We must show readiness by putting our best foot forward, and it starts at the primaries.
 
“What Ndi Anambra deserve is a credible leader who has the right combination of character, competence, capacity, and compassion for the people. Sentiments should not guide our decision at the primaries. The people are looking up to us, so we must not disappoint them because we stuck to outdated tactics.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .