 Member, Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA), Henry Okhuarobo (left); Speaker, Marcus Onobun; Governor Godwin Obaseki; Clerk of the House, Audu Yahaya Omogbai and Deputy Speaker, Roland Asoro during the signing of the Edo State Audit Bill 2021 at the Government House in Benin City…yesterday.  Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has urged citizens to transcend politics and electioneering campaigns in the state and work with the government to realise his administration’s Make Edo Great Again (MEGA) agenda. Obaseki, who insisted that MEGA agenda was aimed at improving livelihoods and ensuring economic prosperity for Edo people, gave the charge while receiving new executive of the Ijaw Youths Council of Nigeria, Edo Chapter, who visited him at the Government House, Benin City.
 
He said his administration is focusing on education, healthcare and electricity, reassuring that everyone would be carried along in his government.
 
Reassuring his administration’s commitment to ensure that development gets to Ijaw and all other communities of the state, he said: “I am keen on the economic development of the area, but we can only make progress when we are united.  He stressed that the bill would allow for the establishment of the Edo State Audit Service Commission (ASC) and Office of the Auditor-General at the state and council levels to ensure accountability and transparency in the handling of public resources. MEANWHILE, a coalition of Benin youth groups yesterday opposed Governor Obaseki’s plans to build the Edo Museum of West African Arts (EMWAA) that would house repatriated artifacts. This followed barely one week after Obaseki unveiled plans for Benin City Cultural District at the EMWAA Pavilion during the 2021 National Commission for Museums and Monuments (NCMM). But in a joint statement issued by the President, National Union of Edo South Youth, Osaghae Collins, President, Benin Solidarity Movement, Curtis Ugbor and President, One Love Foundation, Patrick Eholor, the groups vowed to resist attempts by the state government to preside or decide where the artefacts to be returned would be kept.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .