Akwa Ibom State High Court sitting in Uyo has sentenced a 40-year-old man, Aniekan John Udom, to life in prison for raping an 8-year-old boy. Udom, a native of Ikot Nkim in Ibesikpo Asutan Local Government Area, was sentenced by Justice Bennett Ilaumo, having been found guilty of rape, which is punishable by sections one and two of Violence Against Persons Prohibition Law, 2020. The state counsel, Maria Akpan, while reading the fact of the case, had told the court that Aniekan John Udom, was caught committing the offense in a broad daylight by a lesson teacher of the victim, one Iniobong Akpan Nta, at the backyard of their residence, number 12 Anyan-Ikot Street, off Abak Road, Uyo, with his penis inserted into the anus of the victim, a primary four pupil. The counsel said upon seeing the said Iniobong, the accused person ran away, but was later arrested by the police. The accused, who was a neighbour to the victim, pleaded guilty to the offense, which occurred Friday, 28th August 2020. The police medical report confirmed that the victim was forcefully raped on the anus with clinical evaluation showing a young boy in pain and bruises around his anal region. The report also showed an impression of sexual assault to rule out sodomy and at risk of sexually transmitted diseases. Justice Ilaumo in his judgment in suit number HU/23C/2020 between the state and Aniekan John Udom sentenced the accused to imprisonment for life. “Upon the charge being read to the accused person and upon his plea of guilty and of his hearing the facts as stated by the State Counsel, I enquired of the accused if the facts are true and correct and he admitted that they are. I have aligned same with Section 1 (1) (a) of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Law, 2020 and find that facts align with the provision of the law therein. Upon the accused person’s plea, therefore, I find him guilty as pleaded,” Ilaumo ruled. “The sentence provided for upon conviction for this offence is imprisonment for life.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .