 Abubakar Malami, AGF  Consequently, the president found Professor Itse Sagay, a seasoned law teacher and an acclaimed civil rights activist as the suitable person to chair the body. Other members of the Committee, which was also expected to develop comprehensive interventions for achieving recommended reforms, were the late Prof. Femi Odekunle, a Professor of Criminology, Ahmadu Bello University; Dr. (Mrs) Benedicta Daudu, Associate Professor of International Law, University of Jos; Prof. E. Alemika, Professor of Sociology, University of Jos; Prof. Sadiq Radda, Professor of Criminology, Bayero University, Kano; Hadiza Bala Usman, a civil society activist, who was later appointed the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, who was in the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies (NIALS) as the Executive Secretary of the Committee. Owasanoye has since been appointed to chair the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC).  Some Nigerians and indeed the attorney general of the federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN) have asked for the disbandment of the body, for allegedly overstaying its relevance. Malami was recently reported to have urged President Buhari to disband the Committee as he did with the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SPIP) formerly under the supervision of Okoi Obo­no-Obla on the ground that it is no longer relevant to the fight against corruption. But when asked if he has submitted any memo in respect of the call to the president on national television last week, Malami said he has not done so yet. When The Guardian sought to get details of the AGF’s view on the matter, his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Dr Umar Gwandu said: “ It was a presidential committee established by the Presidency long before the appointment of Malami as the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice and his assumption into office in 2015. The fate of the existence or otherwise of the committee is the exclusive preserve of the Presidency regardless of whether it outlives its usefulness or not.”   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .