• Gives 23 Spike Shoes For Athletes
• Eight Secondary Schools To Battle In Relays The Athletics Department of Belmont University in Nashville, Tennessee, United States of America, has offered 23 pairs of spike shoes and jogging shoes for athletes to compete in the maiden southeast Sports Foundation athletics competition slated for Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu, on March 19. The South East Sports Foundation is a pet project of United States-based Nigerian former athlete, Victor Okorie, who was one of the most gifted hurdlers to rise from the nation’s school sports system. Okorie, who won a silver medal for Team Nigeria at COJA 2003 All Africa Games in Abuja, has been bankrolling a scholarship programme for athletes and training some Nigerian coaches at the National Institute For Sports (NIS) in Lagos. The competition is open for all Nigerian athletes. Okorie stated yesterday that the organisers were grateful to Belmont University for their ‘generous gift.’ He said: “I really appreciate Coach Jeff Langdon,  Coach Joe Frye, and  Coach Cameron Harvey and the  entire Belmont University community for all they have done for the South East Sports Foundation.” A total of 40 students from eight secondary schools are expected to participate in the 4x100m relay event. The organisers have promised to provide hotel accommodations, transportation, and feeding for 95 participants, including 50 athletes and some coaches within the zone. A member of the organizing committee said yesterday that Enugu State Commissioner for Youths and Sports Manfred Nzekwe, and the Director of Sports, Honorable Ken Onuaguluchi are among the top dignitaries expected at the event. Also expected at the event are the Directors of Sports from Anambra, Imo, Abia, and Ebonyi State. Two Nigeria-based hip hop and reggae artist, Leo Saint, and BadManQ are expected to team up with Nigerian-American afrobeat artist based in Minnesota, E’Major, to thrill athletes at the competition. E’Major, a native of Enugu, had offered to sponsor himself to the competition venue as part of his contribution to the South East Sports Foundation project. The event originally billed for March 13 was moved forward to March 19 to allow Rangers FC honour a league match at the venue. Athletes are expected to arrive the coal city on March 18 to compete the following day in 100m (male and female), 200m (male and female), 400m (male and female) and the jumps. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .