 Favor possu  Meet Favour
FAVOUR Posu hails from Badagry, Nigeria. She was born into the family of Dr and Mrs Posu. She is a penultimate law student of Olabisi Onabanjo University with core interests in Technology Law, Corporate Law, International Trade, and Alternative Dispute Resolution. She is an outstanding law student with a grave commitment to excellence. Sequel to her passion for conflict resolution, she is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Mediators and Conciliators. Being an ardent believer in information as a tool for transformation, she has engaged in public speaking and debate of which she has won several laurels to her name. She is a volunteer speaker, mentor, and poet who impacts lives through the usage of words. Her topnotch leadership skills are palpable from the various positions held – President, Christian Law Students’ Fellowship of Nigeria, Olabisi Onabanjo University Chapter, Co-founder, Tech-Savvy Law Student Club, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Legal Officer, Noble Intellect Student Society, Secretary, Omaplex Virtual Internship Alumni Network, Campus Ambassador, Mediate Guru. To that end, she is committed to personal development and career advancement. She is loved and helped by God from which her essence is hinged. Choosing To Study Law
As a young, bubbling, and cheerful girl with good communication and persuasive skills, the word ‘Baby Lawyer’ has always been reinforced to my person. The conviction was so strong in the minds of family and family and friends; that got me thinking if the Legal Profession was really what I wanted or what my people wanted for me. Also, I felt I was also going to be good at Acting. Still in a state of dilemma, however, with a strong push, I embarked on the legal sojourn. I must say I have no regrets, although the decision to study law was not absolutely self-willed. I am instead grateful for the great push towards the path of destiny. With the diverse nature of the Legal Profession, I have been able to test the waters and set on a journey of carving a niche in the noble Profession. Working As An Associate Of The Institute Of Chartered Mediators And Conciliators Right 
Being an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Mediators and Conciliators, I recently concluded a three-month internship at Ogun State Multi-Door Court House where I was privileged to understudy eight mediators and co-facilitated several mediation sessions. Passion For Public Speaking And Debate
My most memorable moment during Public Speaking was when I was in JSS 3 and I had the privilege to speak on the topic: Corruption, a clog in the wheel of Progress. The five minutes speech was characterised by utmost attention on the part of over 2,000 senior school students, including Principals, Vice Principals, and teachers at the Assembly ground. Upon completion of the speech, a round of applauds and eyes of admiration and prayers escorted me down the stairs. I was not only able to make a name for myself; I was able to also make a lasting impact in the mind of the youths by preaching against the evils of corruption. Being Co-Founder Of An Emerging Sector Like Tech Law And Advice To Students Who Want To Choose It As A Career Path The world is fast evolving with the use of technology in various practise areas. It is no news that the value of technology in the 21st Century cannot be undermined, as it is the tool to staying relevant in the society of today. Indeed, technology is the new oil that has come to stay in the Legal profession. It is important for Technology Law enthusiasts like myself to read extensively on the diverse areas of Technology Law. Find a path and carve a niche. Seek mentors in the field. Write articles and register your visibility as a Tech Law enthusiast on social media accounts like LinkedIn. There are really no challenges aside from the need to be consistently up on your toes and be abreast of the trends in the industry. Lastly, subscribe to Newsletters in the Tech Law Industry. Balancing Education And Other Activities
Sincerely, it has really been by the grace and wisdom of God. However, it is expedient to note my little efforts with God’s blessings. Sequel to the understanding of my identity in Christ, the passion for excellence became aggressively heightened. Hence, excellence is not an option but a must. Core values such as diligence, excellence, discipline, and resiliency are greatly valued coupled with a strong passion for personal development, people development, career advancement, and impact making. Inspiration is gotten from a long-term gratification, zest for knowledge, and the impacts made. I must not fail to mention the fact that God has always been my biggest motivator. My Role As The President Of CLASFON OOU And How It Influenced My Christian Life
The privilege to serve as the President of the Christian Law Student Fellowship of Nigeria (CLASFON) has been a defining phase for me. It has greatly helped in building capacity spiritually, intellectually, and academically. Through the undiluted word of God, I have been guarded with wisdom for practical living with great friends from the body of Christ. Also, my service to God has helped to instill in me similarly striking values of Christ and the legal profession. These values are Integrity, Honesty, Truthfulness, Diligence, and Fairness. Challenges
One of the greatest challenges faced is people management. In my quest to keep surmounting these challenges, I have been able to hone my communication, organisation, problem-solving, critical analysis, and administration skills. What I Would Change If I Were The President Of Nigeria
Recognising Education as the milestone of a nation’s development and the foundation of society, which brings economic wealth, social prosperity, and political stability. Considering the poor state of the education system of the country, I would revitalise and reform the education system to the best international standards. A revolution in the Education sector will automatically cause a substantial improvement in other sectors such as government, economy, and health. Three Women Who Inspire Me And Why
My mother, Mrs. Abosede Posu inspires me in so many ways; her passion for excellence has been well cultivated. Her dependence on God as the secret of her amazing display of strength is admirable. She is full of virtues and highly industrious. Watching her as a young girl performing excellently as a wife, mother, entrepreneur, teacher, and friend has always rekindled the passion of greatness in me. She is indeed rare. Bettina Shobanke is another woman that inspires me a lot. In her, I see the manifest love of God at work. Lastly, the woman that inspires me is Esther in the Bible who is zealous about her country, and through the help of God, she was used in the salvation of the children of Israel from death. My Five Year-projection
By God’s grace, I see myself pursuing my LLM postgraduate programme at an Ivy League School in the United States of America. By God’s grace, I should be with my helpmate. If Given The Opportunity To Address A Group Of Girls Five Years Younger
I would make them understand few but sacrosanct pieces of information such as: 1. The seasons of life: These are two major seasons in the life of a man: the time to sow and reap. The law of nature whatever is sown shall reap is applicable to humans. To that end, the sowing time (youth) is the most important as it determines what is to be harvested. Hence, the need to be diligent, resourceful, and purposeful. 2. The greatest influencers: What you see, what you hear, and what you read. Just like food, feeding on the right thing would enhance healthy and overall development. Hence, you need to guard your heart with all diligence for out of it flows the issue of life. Surround yourself with the right set of people; choose friends that are nourishing. A quick one! To get good friends, be a good one. Read good books, watch good movies. Flee from every appearance of evil either written or played.
 
3. The importance of God first as the secret to fulfilling purpose, know God in the days of thy youth; that cannot be overemphasised. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .