 Ortom. Photo: Twitter/ GovSamuelOrtom  Governors and other Nigerians, yesterday, denounced an assassination attempt on the Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom. They vented their anger just as Ortom offered thanksgiving to God for surviving the attack. While acknowledging the quick response of the Inspector General of Police by deploying a crack team of detectives to investigate the attack on him, the governor noted that the Fulani Nationality Movement (FUNAM) had already claimed responsibility for the assassination attempt and should be arrested and questioned.
 
Ortom was ambushed by gunmen suspected to be Fulani bandits along Tyo-MU Makurdi/Gboko road on Saturday. He was allegedly attacked by over 15 gun-wielding herdsmen while inspecting his farm near Makurdi. He escaped death narrowly.  REACTING to the attack, Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) said, yesterday, the move to make Benue State ungovernable was unacceptable and would fail woefully.  SIMILARLY, governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) declared yesterday, that assassination attempt on Ortom of Benue State is an invitation to anarchy.
 
A statement by the Chairman of PDP Governors Forum and Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, warned that “any attempt to harm any Nigerian will be viewed by the Forum as an attempt on all of us.”
 
The forum reminded the Federal Government of its primary responsibility of securing the nation, especially since it controls military forces.  ALSO irked by the attack, a former President of the Senate, Senator David Mark, has asked security operatives to step up to the task of securing lives and property to avoid resort to self-help. Mark described security situation in the country as scandalous and making Nigeria a subject of ridicule before other nations. Mark, in a statement signed by his media adviser, Paul Mumeh, said: “If a state governor can be so brazenly attacked, what would they not do to ordinary citizens. “Let me state clearly that Benue people are receptive and accommodating; but this should not be misconstrued or mistaken for weakness. Enough of this malady.”
 
He asked the Federal Government and all the security agencies to come to terms with the painful reality of  unabating insecurity in the land and resolve to end it. While urging Ortom not to be deterred by the incident, he advised citizens to be security conscious at all times and to provide useful information to security operatives on activities believed to be unlawful or anti-society.
ANOTHER condemnation came from the Nigeria Christian Graduate Fellowship (NCGF).
 
In a statement issued by the National President, Prof. Chuks Eboka and General Secretary, Pastor Philip Nwaegeruo, the body called for the immediate arrest and prosecution of the culprits behind the criminal act.  The group called on the Federal Government and security agencies to get to the root of the matter, stressing that such a vicious attack on a serving governor portended grave danger to the nation’s unity and democracy. MEANWHILE, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Muhammed  Adamu, has ordered extensive investigations into the circumstances surrounding the attack.
 
This was contained in a statement issued in Abuja, yesterday, by the Force Public Relations Officer, CP Frank Mba. It quoted the IGP as condemning the incident and directing the commissioner of police in Benue State Command to take adequate measures towards strengthening and improving security in the state, particularly around the governor.
 
To ensure speedy and thorough investigations into the matter, the IGP also ordered the immediate deployment of a team of specialised investigators from the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID), Abuja to Benue State to provide additional investigative support to the Benue State Police Command. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .