A firm, B4G Consulting Ltd, has asked a Lagos High Court to restrain Systems Applications Products (SAP) from dissipating $3,371,945.27 and N5 million with 28 respondents, including the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and 21 other banks, pending the hearing and determination of an alleged breach of contract suit. It is also seeking a Mareva injunction restraining the 1st – 28th respondents from releasing to SAP funds or other instruments belonging to SAP and held with the 1st – 28th respondents up to the value of $3,371,945.27 and N5 mllion pending the determination of the suit. It is further seeking a Mareva injunction restraining the respondents from releasing to SAP any fund or other instruments belonging to SAP pending the hearing and determination of the suit. It is also praying for an order directing the respondents to file and serve affidavits before the court within seven days of the grant of the three prayers “disclosing an account of all monies, funds or other instruments belonging and/or due and payable to the defendants/respondents and held with them.” Those include but not limited to any pending contractual obligations and payments due to the defendants/respondents as at the date of service of the motion on each of the respondents.” The suit, which was formerly before Justice Ogunjobi, has now been reassigned to Justice Ashade and proceedings are to resume on March 26, 2021. B4G Consulting Ltd & Anor, represented by Mr. David Ogebe, are the claimants/applicants in the suit marked LD/ADR/519/2016, while SAP Nig. Ltd and SAP (Africa Region) (Proprietary) Ltd are the defendants/respondents and are represented by Adedapo Tunde-Olowu (SAN). Twenty-eight others are nominal respondents in the application for a Mareva injunction. Apart from the Mareva injunction, the claimant is also seeking other reliefs in the main suit. These include “an order directing the defendants to pay to the claimants $83,169.78, being outstanding and unpaid $117. 60 in respect of hoteling for eight consultants from January to September 2010 and $267, 792, being payment for services of consultants between July to September 2010,” among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .