Nigerian Army Troops in Kaduna, in a fresh offensive, have killed scores of bandits in an air raid in Chikun and Birnin Gwari council areas of Kaduna State. In a security update yesterday, the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, stated: “According to operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government, air platforms conducted armed reconnaissance on Gwagwada, Chikun, Kuduru, Chukuba, Erina, Kushaka, Dogon Gona, Kusasu, Sarkin Pawa, Kurebe and Falleli around the Kaduna-Niger interstate boundaries where scores of bandits were neutralised. “Within eight kilometres Northeast of Kushaka, bandits were sighted crossing a track to flee from the aircraft. They were promptly engaged and neutralised. Ground troops reported calm situations at Sarkin Pawa and Erina.” Aruwan pointed out that “another mission was conducted at the Birnin Gwari general area with an informant on board to identify bandit hideouts, which were then engaged with rockets,” adding: “A bandit scampering for cover within the woods was also neutralised.” He explained that on “receiving the operational feedback, Governor Nasir El-Rufai thanked the crew and commended them for the successful missions.” The commissioner added: “Four bandits have been neutralised and several others injured in an ambush conducted by troops around Gwagwada and Chikun local government areas. According to operational feedback from troops of Operation Thunder Strike (OPTS), intelligence was received on bandits’ movement from Katika village towards Antenna in Chikun Local Government Area. “In response to this, the troops laid an ambush on Antenna village. The troops opened fire as they (bandits) entered the killing range. “After the engagement, four of the bandits were confirmed dead, while several others escaped with gunshot wounds. Three rifles and one axe were recovered from the scene. Governor Nasir El-Rufai commended the troops for the swift action which led to the successful exercise and elimination of the four bandits.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .