(Photo by Yasuyoshi CHIBA / AFP) A new political movement, National Consultative Front (NCFront), has urged Nigerians to reject another general election except a new “People’s Constitution” which can guarantee biometric accreditation, electronic and diaspora voting is put in place. The movement faulted the 1999 Constitution, saying the system of government has not only failed but is also pushing the country to anarchy. In a communiqué issued after its virtual meeting, the movement disclosed its readiness to merge with other credible platforms to find alternative means of governance to what the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have offered since 1999. NCFront, in the communiqué signed by its Head of Media, Mr. Wale Okunniyi, read in part: “Leaders of conscience, fully involved in the ongoing citizens-driven constitutional process anchored by former President, Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN)-led People’s Constitution Drafting Committee and overwhelming other Nigerians desirous of finding a formidable people’s and service-oriented alternative to the ‘disastrous rulership’ of APC and PDP in Nigeria also resolved to mobilise all Nigerians to resist any national elections without a new ‘People’s constitution’ that can guarantee biometric accreditation, electronic and diaspora voting.” According to Okunniyi, the merger would see various platforms, allies and stakeholders that share NCFront’s mission fusing into a strong political group to save Nigeria from avoidable misery and hopelessness. Chairman of the Merger Committee and former Speaker, House of Representatives, Ghali Umar Na’aba, said the panel would work vigorously to ensure that the manifesto, constitution, nomenclature, logo, motto, slogan and interim leadership structures of the new mega political movement are robustly discussed and agreed upon. Na’aba added that eminent Nigerians to be consulted by his committee for technical advice include former Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Attahiru Jega, Prof. Pat Utomi, Dr. Obadiah Mailafia, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, Agbakoba and notable members of the #EndSars movement.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .