 Terrorists  Terrorists have killed 21 persons in Igabi and Kajuru local councils of Kaduna State. However, the military also caused havoc on the side of the bandits by air raid, which neutralised the gunmen in their camps. In an update on the security situation in Kaduna yesterday, the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, stated: “In Igabi local council, armed bandits barricaded the Birnin Yero-Tami road and killed one Hussaini Dari. One Dahiru Saidu was left injured, and is now receiving treatment in a hospital. “At Gwada village in Igabi, an attack by gunmen left Yahuza Sale and Garba Sule dead. In another incident, armed bandits invaded Ungwan Kure, and killed two others. They also attacked Amawan Dadi Rugan Jauru settlements. A resident identified simply as Likita was shot dead.” Governor Nasir el-Rufai reportedly noted the incidents with sadness, and sent his condolences to the families of those killed, while praying for the repose of their souls. He also wished those injured a quick recovery. MEANWHILE, air missions were conducted over criminals’ hideouts in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local councils, as well as Southern Kaduna area, leading to the death of many bandits. Aruwan added: “Air platforms conducted armed reconnaissance over locations spanning Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local councils. Locations covered include Sabon Birni, Maidaro, Ngade Allah, Kuduru, Damari, Dogon Dawa, Kidandan, Galadimawa, Rikau, Yadi and the Kaduna/Birnin Gwari road.” IN Benue State, gunmen suspected to be cultists yesterday morning shot dead a young man at Makurdi Modern Market. The Guardian gathered from witnesses who pleaded anonymity that the incident took place about 10.45a.m. in the full glare of traders who were just displaying their goods for the day. Another said the deceased, whose name was yet to be known at press time, had rode his motorcycle to the market and was trying to alight from it when two assailants walked up to him and shot him twice. “The deceased tried to stand up after being shot, but the gunmen rushed to him with stones and hit him until he breathed his last. “We all ran for our lives while the drama lasted. From where I was, I saw how they hit him severally with stones and motor rim on his head. When they were sure that he had died, they then left him on the ground and walked away through a section of the market unchallenged,” he explained. The source added that the development made the traders to hastily close their wares until policemen from the D-Division came an hour later and evacuated the victim’s corpse and motorcycle from the scene. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Catherine Anene, could not confirm the report when contacted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .