 Wale Oke  Oke, therefore, urged Buhari to urgently address Nigerians on the palpable insecurity situation of the country. The founder of the Sword of the Spirit Ministries and Proprietor of the Precious Cornerstone University (PCU), Ibadan, gave the assertions at the Cornerstone City, Ibadan, when he received separately the Lagos, Ogun and Osun states’ chapters of the PFN led by Apostles Enjimaya Okwuonu and David Otaru, as well as Prophet Isaiah Adelowokan. They visited to felicitate with him on his emergence as the body’s President. “The silence of President Muhammadu Buhari over the degenerating security situation in Nigeria is too loud and this is very disturbing seriously. The silence is deafening and gives room for speculation and gossips that suggest the government has hands in the sickening situation by indulging and pampering the bandits and the killer Fulani herdsmen, among others,” he said. He, therefore, charged the President to rise up and tackle the situation headlong, stressing: “He should rise above primordial sentiments and sectional attachment by doing the needful to make the nation more homely for every Nigerian. “There is so much pressure and tension in the land owing to insurgency being orchestrated by the Boko Haram, kidnapping, banditry, killer Fulani herdsmen’s palaver, raping, among other ills. All these are self-inflicted. “We don’t want the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, to be the one that will speak. It is President Buhari himself that we want to hear from on the dreary security situation in the country. Our President should use the opportunity to disassociate his government from the lawlessness currently ravaging the country through the activities of Boko Haram insurgents and the killer Fulani herdsmen. He should tell his kinsmen, the Fulani, to stop the mindless killings currently on in the country, arrest and make those culpable to face the wrath of law. Tell the bandits, the killers, the rapists and all those involved in these heinous engagements the language of law whether they are Fulani or whatever. Let the nation hear your fatherly voice. People are living in fear, farmers cannot go to their farms anymore.” He further charged the President to be expeditious in tackling the mounting challenges, insisting that the nation was at the brink of collapse. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .