 Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero  The Emir made the call on Friday night at the Tijjaniyya Islamic Religious Movement national prayer for peace and unity in Nigeria held at the Abuja National Mosque. He stressed the need for peaceful coexistence, which he said was critical to the development of the country, adding that all hands must be on deck to achieve good results. The traditional ruler, who led other Muslim clerics to pray for the country and its leaders, expressed pleasure over the gathering, which he said aimed at fostering the unity of the country. “I am extremely delighted to be in this town and in this place, the National Mosque Abuja to put our heads together to pray for the unity, peace, harmony, and progress of our nation. “We are gathered together here today for the purpose of peace, unity, and stability of the country,” he said. The Emir said the gathering showed that the people loved their country and had respect for the authorities. He thanked Allah for the opportunity to gather and pray for the country and also thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for giving him and other Muslim clerics the opportunity to meet with him earlier in the day at the Presidential Villa. The Emir, who pledged to keep praying for the country’s leaders to have the heart to positively impact the lives of the people, thanked Muslim faithful and clerics for supporting the prayer. He, however, urged the people to be patient with their leaders, adding that there was a need for all hands to be on deck to ensure the success of the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that in attendance, were the Estu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, and other Muslim clerics. The prayer was led by the World leader of the Tijjaniyya Islamic Religious Movement, Sheikh Muhammadul Mahy Niass and the Grand Khalifa Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi. The Dahiru Bauchi advised religious leaders in the country to continue to preach and pray for peace of the country. According to him, it is only when there is peace that the country can progress and make meaningful development. Special prayers were offered for national peace and progress and for the health of President Muhammadu Buhari. Prayers were also offered for the peaceful coexistence of Nigerians and for President Buhari to deliver on his campaign promises to the people.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .