 Minister of State for Health, Dr. Olorunnimbe Mamora (left); Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun, Chief Medical Director, Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, Prof. Adewale Musa-Olomu and others, during the commissioning of Muhammadu Buhari International Conference Centre and Telemedicine Hall, Radiology Complex, Oxygen Plant, gymnasium, among others, at the Centre in Abeokuta… yesterday.<br />  Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has called for partnership with the Federal Government and other stakeholders to ensure adequate delivery of healthcare services to the people of the state. Abiodun made the call in Abeokuta during the commissioning of Muhammadu Buhari International Conference and Tele-Medicine Hall at the Federal Medical Centre, Idi-Aba, noting that telemedicine will provide additional opportunities for the people to access medical care and that the administration will continue to support and partner with the centre and every other medical institution towards providing efficient and effective medicare for the people. The governor also disclosed that the state government would be willing to partner with other institutions in other sectors of the economy. Abiodun, while also urging all health institutions in the state, regardless of ownership, to strengthen collaboration and synergy within themselves and the state government, said that the administration would continue to put in place appropriate policies towards providing efficient and effective healthcare for the people. In his speech, President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by the health minister, said the Federal Government had embarked on infrastructural development of all tertiary hospitals for quality healthcare delivery. He also disclosed that the National Health Insurance Scheme was awaiting a law that would make the scheme compulsory for every Nigerian. Also, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, who was represented by the Senate Committee Chairman on Health, Ibrahim Oloriegbe, said the bill on the establishment of the University of Medical Sciences, Abeokuta, would be passed in April, adding that the Senate had been able to use the opportunity of the COVID-19 to provide additional resources for infrastructure. The Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, praised Abiodun’s giant strides in rehabilitation of roads and health facilities, saying: “You used to be Mr. Road, but you are now also Mr. Health. We are noticing your efforts in Abuja.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .