(FILES) In this file photo taken on March 01, 2021 supporters of Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan rally at Republic Square in downtown Yerevan. – Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan on March 18 announced a snap parliamentary election to be held June 20, in an effort to defuse a political crisis sparked by last year’s war with Azerbaijan. (Photo by ARIS MESSINIS / AFP) Armenia lifted martial law on Wednesday, five months after the end of its brutal war with Azerbaijan over the Nagorno-Karabakh region. The decision to lift the order came as part of a deal between Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan and the opposition to defuse a political crisis sparked by Armenia’s crushing defeat in the six-week conflict. Pashinyan’s critics have staged regular protests calling on him to resign for his handling of the war since November when he agreed a ceasefire and ceded swathes of territory to Azerbaijan. Armenian law says a sitting prime minister cannot be removed during martial law and the move to lift it came after Pashinyan agreed with the opposition to hold fresh parliamentary elections in June to end the protests. Parliament, which is controlled by Pashinyan’s allies voted Wednesday 118 to 1 with one abstention to lift martial law, which was declared September 27, the day clashes erupted in Nagorno-Karabakh. Parliament speaker and Pashinyan ally Ararat Mirzoyan said Tuesday that the ruling party would back the move “since a deal has been reached between political forces on defusing the internal political situation through snap polls.” Armenia’s simmering territorial conflict with Azerbaijan ignited in September into an all-out war that left more than 6,000 people dead. The ceasefire brokered by Russia saw Pashinyan hand over large parts of Azerbaijan that had been controlled for several decades by Armenian separatists. They had controlled the ethnic-Armenian region since they broke away from Baku during a war in the early 1990s. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .