3 Nigerian Influences In Coming To America 2 There couldn’t have been a bigger noise about Coming To America 2 after excited movie lovers who anticipated the release of the much-talked-about film continues to wax lyrical about it. Coming to America 2 was premiered in Nigeria on the 5th of March, with many including celebrities being eager to watch the star-studded film. Since the premiere, many people have aired their reviews of the film which centres on King Akeem taking a journey to find his illegitimate son. He and Semmi travel to Queens to meet his illegitimate son, Lavelle Junson, only to find him a smart-mouthed ticket resaler struggling to get a real job. After an awkward reunion with his mother Mary, Akeem takes them both and Lavelle’s uncle Reem back to Zamunda, much to his family’s displeasure. Zamunda, the city where the film was shot is an African state. However, as a fictional state, there were influences from different African states, Nigeria inclusive. Nigeria has always been at the forefront of beautiful cultural practices, from dance to clothing and many more. There was a lot of ‘Nigerianess’ in Coming to America 2. Cast
Nigeria is blessed with talented people and these people have taken over the entertainment industry all over the world. In the film, Coming to America 2, there are 3 actors from Nigeria. The award-winning artiste, Davido, the Nigerian-American actor, Rotimi Akinosho, and the talented Wesley Snipes who traced his origin to Nigeria are all a part of the cast for the film. The Tracklist
Out of 12 tracklists for Coming to America 2, four of them are from Nigerian artistes. Koroba by Tiwa Savage, Waka Waka by Tekno, Assurance by Davido, and Coming 2 America featuring Burnaboy. The inclusion of these songs shows how Nigerian artistes continue to dominate the music scene around the world. Also, Davido performed the song Assurance in the film. Dressing
One of the beautiful things about Nigerian culture is the clothing. The styles and native attires are always admired around the world. In Coming to America 2, the Yoruba Agbada dress was worn by some of the guards, and the use of Ankara textile for clothing designs in different scenes. Also, the tying of the Gele in the movie was done in a typical ‘Nigerian way’. These Nigerian influences played a major role in making the film what it is. And further proves that Nigerian culture is beautiful and will always be a major reference point of influence in the entertainment industry for years to come. 