A police inspector, ASP Aniekan Obot, from Ikot Afanga village, Ukana West 1, has been burnt to death by suspected hoodlums at his residence in Ikot, Ukana West, Essien Udium Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. It would be recalled that the police divisional headquarters in the area was burnt a few weeks ago. The police spokesman, MacDonald Oddiko, who confirmed the incident, told The Guardian in a telephone interview that investigation was ongoing as the commissioner of police had sent officers to the area. Killings, cult war, and boundary dispute have been prevalent in the area. However, the state police command has arrested four suspects, including a middle-aged woman, Christiana Wilson, over the alleged murder of a 19-year-old boy, Edidiong Wilson, in Eket Local Council of the state. They also arrested three other persons for the attempted murder of a middle-aged woman after abducting her two children. Akwa Ibom State Police Commissioner, Mr. Andrew Amiengheme, told newsmen in Uyo that the deceased was also beheaded by the suspects one week after he was killed. “Investigations revealed that the principal suspect, Christiana, conspired with four others and abducted her step son to a nearby bush at Ikot Usekong, where the victim was beaten to death. “The suspects buried the deceased in the said bush and later went back to exhume the decomposed body, cut off the head and buried it separately on 30th of December, 2020 at about 7pm on the grounds that his ghost was disturbing them. They thereafter fled to Ondo State. “Christiana stated in her statement that sometimes in September, 2020, she gave the deceased N100,000, being part of the proceeds from the sale of the late husband’s vehicle to keep for her, but when she demanded the money from the deceased, he told her that he saved the money in a micro finance bank in Eket and never returned same. “This prompted her to contact her son-in-law, one Saviour Peter, who came with other suspects to abduct the victim. All the suspects have confessed to the crime and will be charged to court,” Amiengheme said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .