 Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (right); Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya; and Senator Danjuma Goje during the VP’s visit to Gombe…yesterday  He added that chances were that God would hear the requests of those petitioning for the nation’s survival. Speaking at the palace of Emir of Gombe, Alhaji Shehu Abubakar, during his official visit to the state for the 27th Micro Small Medium Enterprise Clinic, the Vice President submitted: “This country will remain one. “Those praying for Nigeria’s break up will not succeed because those praying against such are more in number,” he insisted. Osinbajo commended Governor Inuwa Yahaya administration for infrastructure renewal, road construction, agriculture and the health sector. On his part, Inuwa described the Vice President’s visit as special because “when he visited the state during campaign days in 2019, so much has taken place that has transformed the state due to his administration.” Responding, the monarch lauded Osinbajo for identifying with the growth of SMEs in the country.
SIMILARLY, writer and social critic, Prof. Femi Osofisan, has said breaking up is not the solution to the myriad of problems besetting the country, maintaining that Nigeria is better together. The don, who made the submission during an interview with The Guardian in Ibadan, called on the government to address insecurity and other challenges in Nigeria, stating that when done, agitations would die down. The elder citizen stressed the need for urgent restructuring of the country, saying separation should be the last resort. He said: “It is a pity and we can understand why we have these agitations. The government in power has been disappointing in many ways. We voted in this government, but see what has happened. In South West particularly, a lot of things have happened. It is disappointing that kidnapping, raping and insecurity have become the order of the day. The government doesn’t seem be responsive. Out of that anger, we have warlords coming up because people have to protect themselves. You cannot just sit down and be watching people being killed systematically.” Osofisan continued: “If the government can take steps especially about the armed herdsmen and the government is able to deal with banditry and kidnappings, these agitations will die down. “Obviously, we have to restructure the country. Separation should be a last resort. I personally believe that Nigeria is better together for many reasons. One of them is our population. We have large manpower and human resources which are great advantages.” The professor, who described the Yoruba rights activist, Chief Sunday Adeyemo (popularly called Sunday Igboho) as a courageous man, urged Adeyemo to listen to elders.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .