Burna Boy | Image: RICH FURY/GETTY IMAGES<br /> The Nigerian music scene is rapidly increasing it’s grasp and fanbase reach across the globe. With Burna Boy, Wizkid and Davido receiving the night highlights and carrying forth the African flame on the recently concluded Grammy Awards, indeed the inevitable is here with us. “Africa is the Next Hub of Music trends and rhythm”. Nigerian music style and it’s massive penetration into international playlists and mixes across streaming platforms is not to be ignored.It poses a serious challenge to the up and coming to invest in sound and the technicalities from production to the music consumer level. With this in mind, these are some of the well and carefully curated mixes on top of the charts for your enjoyment.
Listen and Download. 1. Love Songs 2021
This is a must-listen mix featuring the best of West Africa, Burna Boy, and spanning all the way to East Africa, a song by Skales Featuring Harmonie. Set in a highly danceable beat and pop, the mix takes you through moments of reflection, dance and sets in it love in motion. 2. Afrobeats For You
Anytime Abule plays I sure take a leap from my seat, if not allowed I will just sit there at the edge of my seat enjoying all the way. The mix still features Joeboy, Mr Eazi and Navy Kenzo. Well thought, clean and each entry strikes even better, 3. Gospel Set – Full Praise
A combination of Ada Ehi, Mercy Chinwo and Minister Poi is definitely a go to mix as the week takes its time. The mix is set on a thankful tone while acknowledging God’s greatness and His being; Minister Poi has mastered this well. 4. Best Of Naija
This is a morning maker. Starts off with Joeboy featuring Kenyas Rap Chief Khaligraph Jones. Full bars, advanced afrobeat style and fusion of the East and West. Simi and Naira Marley just killed on their sections to make this one of a kind mix. 5. Raggae Splash
Wine to the top by Wizkid and Vybz was definitely a club banger across the continent. It’s affluent video and performance kicks off the mix on a high note which is reciprocated by Konshens, Pternsky and Masicka definitely great artists you should get to know as a Raggae fan 6. Worship and Praise Nigeria
In the wake of global pandemic, life hurdles and experience of bad governance and policy implementation, this mix tends to explore a call for change, a revival of hope, a change of perception and God’s intervention in our situation. Starts off with Frank Edwards and followed by the Trumpet Maestro Nathaniel Bassey. You can download Nigeria songs on Mdundo for free here – https://www.mdundo.com/ng