Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu at 3:03 pm on Friday received its COVID-19 vaccination jab at the infection Disease Centre, Yaba. The governor after receiving his jab implored residents to not spread fake information on the vaccination. Shortly after the governor received his jab, the deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzat received his jab. Lagos State took delivery of the first consignment of 507,000 vaccines allocated to it by the Federal Government on Tuesday. Sanwo-Olu implored residents to stop spreading fake information about the vaccination. He said he did not feel any pain after receiving the jab, encouraging Lagos residents to come forward to take their vaccine. Shortly after the governor received his jab, the deputy Governor, Dr Obafemi Hamzat received his jab too. Earlier, addressing a press conference at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, Commissioner for Health and Deputy Covid-19 Incident Commander, Professor Akin Abayomi, who was the first person in Lagos to receive his jab, announced that in line with the process laid down by the Federal Government, the administration of the vaccines have been scheduled into four phases, with frontline health workers topping the list. Others billed to be vaccinated in the first phase include the Military, Port Healthy authorities, The Police, Judiciary and Rapid Response Workers, the aged, and those with co-morbidities. According to the commissioner, eighty-eight sites have been mapped out for the administration of the vaccine. He urged those who meet the outlined phase one criteria to register to be vaccinated through the State Portal from Monday next week. Abayomi re-emphasized that the vaccination was to boost immunity and there is no guarantee that those vaccinated would not be infected with coronavirus again. Abayomi appealed to Lagos residents and Nigerians, in general, to make themselves available for vaccination when more vaccines become available. In his remarks, the commissioner for information and strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, renewed the appeal to residents to continue to take preventive measures and urged media organisations to continue advocacy on the need for residents to get vaccinated. Meanwhile, pregnant women and children under the age of eighteen are excluded from COVID19 vaccine administration. Commissioner for health, Professor Akin Abayomi, made the clarification while fielding questions from newsmen at Yaba. Abayomi said the clinical test is still ongoing to know the stage of pregnancy to which the vaccine will be safe for mothers. However, the commissioner noted that women who are yet to get pregnant but are expectant are free to take the vaccine. Abayomi urged residents who are interested to be vaccinated to register on an online portal which will be circulated on Lagos State Ministry of Health social media platforms. The commissioner for health and other officials were among those who received the COVID-19 at the event.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .