 SpringSoca United players after the Chipper Cash financial education lecture <br />  The financial education event, which was facilitated by Footballers Connect founder, Amos Joseph, was held at Baptist Academy, Obanikoro, Lagos. At the programme, officials of Chipper Cash and Footballers Connect engaged SpringSoca players in different financial literacy sessions, followed by training matches with 32 players of SpringSoca United kitted in Chipper Cash apparels. Speaking at the event, brand manager of Chipper Cash, Abiodun Animashaun, said the firm, which is AS Roma’s official money transfer platform in Africa, apart from leveraging on the strength of partnership with Footballers Connect to spread joy through football across the continent, the firm is also keen on adding more value to the lives of up and coming footballers in Nigeria. Footballers Connect founder, Joseph, said initiatives such as the financial literacy education, which is often ignored, have ruined the lives of outstanding footballers in Nigeria, Africa and at the global stage. “There’s no better time to bring financial education to footballers other than now… financial education is important to footballers lives and their is need to start teaching them from the grassroots on how to manage money before they start playing in the elite leagues,” Joseph said. Also speaking on the programme, SpringSoca United Director, Emmanuel Oladapo, applauded the partnership with the organisers of the educational event, saying it is another level of enlightenment for players. “The Chipper Cash partnership with Footballers Connect is a great development for grassroots football which would spur football education and orientation of young and aspiring footballers. This partnership provides room for re-orientation and learning. It’s a project, which is born at the right time. “Our team, Springsoca United appreciates the support from Chipper Cash through the donation of branded training Kits and balls for the team. This support goes a long way to ease the burden of the team in purchasing such materials. It’s a laudable development, and we are honoured to have received such support from Chipper,” Oladapo said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .