 The young teenager engaged in menial labour in a bid to survive in Gosa, FCT…				   Photo: Lucy Ladi Ateko  She is determined to take her aged parents, who are not wealthy enough to take care of her basic needs, including access to formal education, out of poverty that looms so large in the family. She is determined to be a success story. Sekwanya, the last child of her parents’ five children, has refused to succumb to pressures from friends to make quick money through illegal means. Rather she has chosen to engage in some menial jobs around the city that will enable her assist her parents in taking care of the household.  “I harvest an average of three containers daily because I have to compete and contend with other community members who also rely on the sales of cashew nuts for survival,” she says.
 
She says, “Our forefathers planted the cashew trees for the benefit of the community. What is important to us is that when cashew fruits are harvested in this community is the proceeds we get from the sale of the nuts while the fruits are usually thrown away.	 
 
“These nuts are collected and paid for by nuts collector in the community who then resells them.”	Aside from harvesting cashew nuts, she is also involved in providing local laundry services for a little token after each harvest season. She says there is no standard price and that her payment is determined by the magnanimity of her client, quantity of clothes and how desperate and financially pressed she is at that moment.
 
When there are no clothes for her to wash, she fetches water in gallons to sell within her community. For the young lady, “there is no dull moment.” 
 
According to her, she fills 200 litres of water in 10 gallons and moves them about in a trolley.	 
 
This is a trade believed to be exclusive of men because of the physical energy required. Yet, she was determined to eliminate gender barrier for her survival and that of her family.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .