13 out 370 scholarship beneficiaries of Kwankwasiyya Development Foundation have secured automatic employment with foriegn institutions and local investors. The beneficiaries, who were selected based on merit, recently returned from abroad after completed their two years postgraduate academic programmes in 14 universities across United States of America, United Arab Emirates and Asia. Unveiling the 370 beneficiaries during a maiden job fair at the weekend, former Kano state Governor and founder of Kwankwasiyya foundation, Sen. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso disclosed that 13 of the beneficiaries were retained and offered automatic jobs for their exemplary academic performance at their foreign universities. Kwankwaso who expressed delight at the commitment of industries, manufacturals and local investors who also offered job opportunities to other Kwankwasiyya scholars at the fair. Kwankwaso who explained his commitment to investing in educational development of youth in Kano was part of his modest endowment into the future of Nigerian youth. He reminded that education remained top priority during his time in government and would continue to devote significant part of his time as private citizen to education. The former Governor noted that Kwankwasiyya foundation we set up to assist women and youth in order to elevate their general living condition, address challenges while offering them opportunities to acquire quality education and learn entrepreneurship skills to become better citizens. Kwankwaso who explained his penchant for foriegn scholarship justified the interest despite the huge cost of training students abroad. “We could have easily sponsored them to any private or public university in Nigeria. But we wanted to give the students international exposure and equip them with the necessary skills to compete with their peers in other climes. “Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, these first-class graduates throughout their stay abroad have been steadfast, loyal to our country, state and the Kwankwasiyya. This I believe have justify the huge resources which the Kwankwasiyya Foundation and other well spirited individuals have committed for their training abroad. “It is fulfilling that 13 out of the 370 first-class graduates have already been offered employment in their alma mater in India and are being considered for doctorate degrees. “I therefore congratulate these 13 graduates and indeed each and every one of you for once again excelling in your academic pursuit with flying colours and for being our good ambassadors as I join your family members and other well-wishers in welcoming you back home in good health.” Earlier, the representatives of Dangote group of companies, BUA limited, Skyline University, Tiami Rice Mills and other local investors pledged their readiness to offer jobs to the graduates. Representive of BUA, Dr. Hadi Idi applauded the excellent performance of the 370 scholars. He posited that BUA is ready to offer excellent working environment and career opportunity to the best candidates. Similarly, representative of Tiami Mills, Mohammad Abubakar posited that Tiami is expanding it’s Rice farm with additional 10,000 hectare of land in Bauchi state. He said the Mills is prepared to offer automatic job to any of the graduants who is ready to leave their comfort zones. The representative of Skyline University, Kano, Engr. Bashir Garba also announced vacancy opening at the private university and readiness to absorb any interested candidates.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .