(FILES) An undated handout picture released by the University of Oxford on November 23, 2020 shows a vial of the University’s COVID-19 candidate vaccine, known as AZD1222, co-invented by the University of Oxford and Vaccitech in partnership with pharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca. – Britain on December 30, 2020 became the first country in the world to approve the coronavirus vaccine developed by drug firm AstraZeneca and Oxford University, with a mass rollout planned from January 4, 2021. (Photo by John Cairns / University of Oxford / AFP) / Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has received doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines from the Federal Government. He disclosed this on Tuesday while speaking at the 2021 International Women’s Day celebration organised by the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation. Sanwo-Olu disclosed that the State Government received the vaccines at 4 am on Tuesday, noting that the vaccines have been kept in a safe place. He assured Lagosians that the State government will soon commence the vaccinations in line with the scheduled guidelines laid down by the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA). Sanwo-Olu also implored Lagosians to continue to keep to all the COVID-19 protocols like wearing of facemasks, washing and sanitising their hands and observing social distance. Recall that last week, Nigeria took delivery of about four million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines as part of an overall 16 million doses planned to be delivered to the country in batches over the next few months. The vaccines were provided by COVAX, in an unprecedented global effort to ensure equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. President Muhammadu Buhari and his vice, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday received shots of the COVID-19 vaccines at the State House, Abuja, and since then other eminent Nigerians have also received it. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .