 [FILES] Hawkers of water waiting for customers in Ebute Metta, Lagos as World Water Day was observed across the world…yesterday.      PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI<br />  Ale, who is the co-founder of, Global Initiative for Nigeria Development (GIND), advised that Rural Development, Ministry of Science and Technology, could redirect the current operational policies to reflect the five critical ways to enhance the value of water for economic development. According to him, water has a priceless value for human survival and United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) VI. The five critical areas, according to him, include valuing water sources – natural water resources and ecosystems; valuing water infrastructure – storage, treatment, and supply, among others. valuing water services – drinking water, sanitation, and health services; valuing water as an input to production and socio-economic activity and valuing socio-cultural aspects of water. He said: “World Water Day is a yearly UN observance day that highlights the importance of freshwater. The day is used to advocate for the sustainable management of freshwater resources. “The World Water Day celebrates water and raises awareness of the global water crisis, and a core focus of the observance is to support the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) VI: water and sanitation for all by 2030. “Economic development and a growing global population mean agriculture and industry are getting thirstier and water-intensive energy generation is rising to meet demand. Climate change is making water more erratic and contributing to pollution. How we value water determines how water is managed and shared. The value of water is much more than its price – water has enormous value for our households, culture, health, education, economics, and the integrity of our natural environment. If we overlook any of these values, we risk mismanaging this finite, irreplaceable resource.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .