A masked witness, yesterday, gave detailed account of the robbery in Zenith Bank, Offa, Kwara State, on April 5, 2018. He spoke before a Kwara State High Court in Ilorin. The suspects in the bank robbery – Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibikunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Azeez Salawu and Niyi Ogundiran – were all present in the court. Codenamed AA, the 8th prosecution witness, who said he was the chief security officer in the bank on the day of the robbery, narrated how the suspects stormed the bank, scared people away, including the four police officers attached to the bank. He said that the hoodlums carted away many phones and accessories, including his, and helped people to withdraw money from the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) which they took away. The sad incident, according to him, happened about 4:45p.m. when most staff of the bank had left. “I was at my working place (Zenith Bank) on April 5, 2018 in Offa. At that time, I was the chief security officer. Around 4:45p.m., I was inside the banking hall when I heard gunshots and I went to the door to check what was happening. “When the gunshots became intense, I took cover alongside a woman and her child within the banking hall. The robbers came in through the main entrance. At that time, most staff had left, except three senior staff and security guards. But everyone escaped, leaving the woman and I behind. The robbers opened fire on the door of the place we were hiding. Some bullets hit my hands, but the robbers couldn’t gain entrance because I had bolted the door from behind,” he narrated. Confirming that five policemen on duty, including Isa Monday, were killed, AA said he did not see the face of any of the armed robbers. Earlier, the trial Judge, Haleeman Salman, had ruled in favour of an application made orally by the prosecution counsel, Rotimi Jacobs (SAN) to allow PW8 give evidence wearing a mask to protect his identity, despite opposition from the defence counsel, Mathias Emeribe. Salman adjourned the case till April 22, 2021 for continuation of hearing. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .