 [FILES] Goodluck Jonathan. Photo: ASKTEEKAY  He decried the incessant kidnapping of school children and many Nigerians for ransom by bandits. Jonathan, who was disturbed by the increasing rate of insecurity, called for synergy among President Muhammadu Buhari, state governors, security chiefs and other stakeholders to de-escalate the tension occasioned by the challenge of insecurity in the country. The former President made the call when he led a delegation of politicians from Bayelsa State on a condolence visit to Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa at Government House, Asaba, over the death of his father, Sir Okorie Okowa. He said: “I believe that with the commitment of the governors and the Federal Government, we will be able to address the issue of insecurity in the country. “I believe the President himself and governors are not sleeping over insecurity challenge in the country. As long as the governors, the President and the security agencies can work together, Nigeria will be able to cross over this very ugly phase of societal evolution.” He expressed satisfaction with Buhari’s efforts to stem the tide of insecurity, he called on Nigerians to join hands in making the country safe for all. He lauded Okowa for his giant strides in human capital and infrastructural development, saying he was proud of the monumental achievements recorded by his administration. He commiserated with the governor on the passage of his father, urging him and his siblings to continue to promote their father’s enviable records as a way to immortalise him. Responding, Okowa thanked the former President for identifying with the family on the passage of their patriarch, saying they were consoled by the fact that their father died in Christ. “My father was truly a school teacher and impacted a lot in our various communities and eventually he became a church leader and was very effective in the Anglican Communion. “He was also a politician; people don’t actually know that, but he actually groomed me in my early days in politics and was always there to offer me advice on what best to do. “He was truly a strong pillar behind me in my early political days,” the governor said. Okowa used the opportunity to appreciate Jonathan for being a good ambassador of the country to the world, urging him to continue to be a father to the people of Niger Delta, Nigeria and Africa. He equally lauded Jonathan for his role in the establishment of Maritime University in Okerenkoko, Warri South West Council of the state, which according to him, has engendered peace in the region.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .