Nigerian youths, under the aegis of Nigeria Youths Movement for Tinubu (NYMT), have urged the National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to join the race for the 2023 presidential election. The group said the former Lagos State governor is the best person to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari to consolidate on the gains of the APC administration. Director-General of the group, Mukhtar Hussein Mukhtar, in a statement made available to journalists in Abuja, yesterday, noted that Tinubu made huge sacrifices for the democracy the country is enjoying today. According to the statement, the support of Tinubu was borne out of genuine concern for the future and development of the nation, adding that the APC leader possesses the attributes to turn the fortunes of the nation around. It also stressed that the success story of Lagos State was a pointer to what Nigeria would become under Tinubu if elected Nigeria’s President by 2023, adding that he has the capacity to lead the country to greatness. “We wish to appeal to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to join the 2023 presidential race in the interest of the nation and our democracy. We have no doubt that he is the best person to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari, given his track record of achievements, both in public service and private sector. “Nigerian youths are not ignorant of the contributions made by Asiwaju Tinubu to return the country to a democratic government and the many sacrifices he has made and continued to make to sustain our democracy. So, we believe that what Nigeria needs at this time is a man with experience and 21 century vision that will help transform our country,” the statement stated. The group said that the APC leader had created employment for Nigerian youths, much more than any Nigerian politician.  Mustapha described Tinubu as a political enigma, a proficient administrator and a successful businessman. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .