 Babatunde Raji Fashola  The Federal Executive Council (FEC), yesterday, approved the change of scope for the construction of the Abuja-Kaduna-Kano highway from N155b to N797.2b. FEC also approved N10.4b for the procurement of fire fighting vehicles and equipment for the Federal Fire Service and N6b for provision of potable water in Gokana, Khana, Eleme and Tai, being the four Ogoni council areas of Rivers State. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola said the road, hitherto undergoing renovation, would be completely reconstructed, thereby changing the cost of the project from N155b to N797.2b. He said: “I presented one memorandum and one report with respect to the Abuja-Kaduna-Zaria-Kano highway, which was to change the scope of work from rehabilitation previously awarded because parts of the pavement had deteriorated, to full reconstruction of two lanes on both sides. “The council considered and approved the request for the change of scope and the incidental cost consequence, which changed the existing contract for N155b to N797.2b for full reconstruction of the main carriageway, trailer parks, way bridges, toll stations and additional side lanes in the built-up areas across the FCT, Niger Kaduna and Kano states, served by the road and FEC approved it for the same contractor.” He listed the rehabilitated roads, which would soon be handed over as the Benin-Asaba, Abuja-Lokoja, Kano-Katsina, Onitsha-Aba, Sagamu-Benin, Kano-Maiduguri, Enugu-Port Harcourt, Ilorin-Jebba and Lagos-Badagry highways. Speaking, Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola said: “The council considered and approved N10.4b to cover the supply of 44 firefighting engines, 15 water tankers, 15 rapid intervention fire engines to respond to distressed calls. “The approval also covers the supply of 20 basic life support ambulances. So, we are looking at 79 firefighting equipment and support vehicles.” Aregbesola said the procurement of the vehicles would enhance the capacity of the Federal Fire Service to effectively control and manage fire emergencies. He appealed to state governments to also equip their fire services, so as to compliment the Federal Fire Service operating in their localities. Aregbesola also announced that the ministry got the approval of N353.2m for the deployment of integrated real-time data repository equipment for the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) Headquarters, Abuja, among others. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouk, said the council also approved the award of contract for the design, development, deployment and management of the National Social Investment Management System for the National Social Investment Programme. The contract worth N2.1b, inclusive of 7.5 per cent Value Added TAX  (VAT) to be completed within 24 months, will tackle sundry issues in the operations of N-Power, N-SIP, National Cash Transfer, and National Home Grown School Feeding programmes. “We are starting with N-Power, which is immediate. Afterwards, we will add other clusters of the National Social Investment Programme into the platform. Council has approved and we will go ahead,” she said. Also, Minister of the Environment, Mahmud Mohammad, said the FEC meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, recalled that the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP) was commissioned in 2016 to clean up Ogoni impacted areas based on UNEP report. “We have had some delays when we came to assess the project and we went to Geneva, met with UNEP that designed the project, conducted the studies and made recommendations for the cleanup of Ogoniland,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .