 Sheikh Ahmed Gumi  The Nigerian Army has cautioned Sheikh Ahmed Gumi against tarnishing its image. The Director, Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Mohammed Yerima, in a statement yesterday, urged the Islamic cleric and others to exercise restraint while delving on military matters. The document read in part: “The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to a viral video showing the respected Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmed Gumi, alleging that non-Muslim soldiers were responsible for the attacks against bandits. “In the clip, the Islamic scholar was seen telling the bandits that the soldiers involved in most attacks against them were non-Muslims. He further stated that they should be aware that soldiers are divided into Muslims and non- Muslims. “While the Nigerian Army would not want to join issues with the revered Sheik Ahmed Gumi, it is, however, important to restate that the Nigerian Army, as a national institution, does not deploy its troops along ethnic or religious line. “Therefore Sheikh Ahmed Gumi and other opinion merchants are enjoined not to drag the reputation of one of the most reliable national institutions into disrepute.” It continued: “The Nigerian Army remains the pride of the nation and has continually defended the territorial integrity of this great nation. Comments suggesting mudsliding are not only dangerous, but also capable of creating bad blood among Nigerians. “Furthermore, most operations conducted by the Nigerian Army were done in strict adherence to rules of engagement, code of conduct and respect for the fundamental human rights of the citizenry without any exception. It is, therefore, disturbing that an opinion leader would deliberately want to disparage the Nigerian Army.” IN a related development, troops have neutralised several hoodlums in Kaduna council areas. The settlements in question include Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, in a statement yesterday, said: “Several bandits were neutralised as air platforms conducted armed reconnaissance over locations in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local government areas.	” He added: “In an operational feedback, bandits were sighted at a location six kilometres west of Anaba, which was then engaged with rockets. After the strike, fleeing bandits were mopped up with cannons. “Other locations were reported calm with no suspicious activities, including Rikau, Galadimawa, Kidandan and Yadi.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .