Sharon Osbourne Exits ‘The Talk’ After Her Emotional Defense Of Piers Morgan Sharon Osbourne is leaving The Talk after appearing on the show since its debut in 2010. In a statement on Friday, CBS announced Osbourne’s exit from the daytime talk show. Her departure comes after the series extended its hiatus for a second time as the network continued to look into Osbourne’s behavior following her controversial defense of Piers Morgan on the March 10 episode according to a report by The People Online. According to the statement: Sharon Osbourne has decided to leave The Talk. The events of the March 10 broadcast were upsetting to everyone involved, including the audience watching at home. As part of our review, we concluded that Sharon’s behavior toward her co-hosts during the March 10 episode did not align with our values for a respectful workplace. We also did not find any evidence that CBS executives orchestrated the discussion or blindsided any of the hosts. At the same time, we acknowledge the Network and Studio teams, as well as the showrunners, are accountable for what happened during that broadcast as it was clear the co-hosts were not properly prepared by the staff for a complex and sensitive discussion involving race. During this week’s hiatus, we are coordinating workshops, listening sessions and training about equity, inclusion and cultural awareness for the hosts, producers and crew. Going forward, we are identifying plans to enhance the producing staff and producing procedures to better serve the hosts, the production and, ultimately, our viewers. During the March 10 episode, Osbourne, 68, defended Morgan amid backlash for his controversial remarks questioning the validity of Meghan Markle’s discussion on mental health during her recent interview with Oprah Winfrey. Her fierce defense of Morgan, 55, who quit Good Morning Britain amid criticism from his co-host Alex Beresford — resulted in an intense exchange with Sheryl Underwood on The Talk. Following Morgan’s departure, Osbourne defended him on Twitter, writing at the time, “I am with you. I stand by you.” Underwood, 57, later told Osbourne that she was downplaying the racial undertones of Morgan’s remarks. Their conversation quickly turned emotional with Osbourne telling Underwood to “educate” her and warning her not to cry during the episode. Osbourne later took to Twitter to apologise for her outburst and to state that she is not racist nor does she condone racism.