Bandits can’t dictate the education of children, says El-Rufai Troops, yesterday, rescued 10 people kidnapped from the Kaduna Airport Staff Quarters on March 6, 2021. Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwa, disclosed this at a press briefing yesterday. He said: “The Kaduna State Government can confirm that troops of the Nigerian Army have rescued the 10 victims who were kidnapped from the Kaduna Airport Staff Quarters, Ifira, Igabi Local Government Area.” The victims are listed as Ilori Sunday, Mrs. Celestina Sunday, Miss Beauty Sunday, Miss Miracle Sunday, and Miss Marvelous Sunday. Others are Miss Destiny Sunday, Samuel Sunday, Miss Deborah Sunday, Hajiya Badiyatu Abdullahi Gambo, and Bilkisu Gambo. The commissioner refused to mention the location of the rescue operation by the soldiers and the circumstances following the incident. MEANWHILE, Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, has announced that the fate of pupils in the state will not be left at the mercy of criminal elements. He said that though Nigerians did not appreciate the peace and security in the country until the current state of insecurity rocking the nation, everyone should support the efforts of the military to keep Nigeria safe. The Kaduna governor spoke when the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, visited him. “We will not pay a penny to any bandit. Despite the threats of kidnapping, schools would continue to remain open. The decision to keep schools open was taken, so as not to allow criminals to dictate the education of children in the state.” Amao restated the readiness of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to rid Kaduna and other parts of the country of criminality. The Director of Public Relations and Information, NAF, Air Cdore. Edward Gabkwet, said: “Air Marshal Amao,informed the governor of President Muhammadu Buhari’s marching order to the service chiefs to rid the entire nation of all criminal elements.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .