Chairman/Chief Executive, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, Brig. General Mohamed Buba Marwa (Rtd) (right); British Deputy High Commissioner to Nigeria, Ben Llewellyn-Jones and US Consul General, Claire Pierangelo during the donation of a speedboat to the NDLEA by the British government in Lagos…yesterday. British govt donates speedboat for sea operations
The United States and the United Kingdom governments have pledged more support for the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) after expressing satisfaction with the successes recorded by the new leadership of the agency in just eight weeks in the saddle. The Consul-General of the US Consulate in Lagos, Claire Pierangelo and the British Deputy High Commissioner in Nigeria, Ben Llewellyn-Jones in Lagos on Tuesday, during the donation of a speedboat to the NDLEA. While Pierangelo expressed satisfaction with the performance of the Chairman/Chief Executive of the NDLEA, Mohamed Buba Marwa, in just eight weeks in the saddle, she assured that the US government would be willing to collaborate and give more support to the lead anti-drug agency in Nigeria in view of the dynamism and efficiency that have been brought into the operations of the agency. In his remarks, the Deputy British High Commissioner, Llewellyn-Jones said the UK government was pleased with the series of illicit drugs seized by the NDLEA at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, the Tincan Seaport and the Apapa Seaport, all in Lagos soon after Marwa came on board as the chairman of the NDLEA. He said with the renewed vigour brought brought into the war against illicit drugs in Nigeria and the successes recorded between January and now, the UK would be glad to offer more support to the agency, adding that the handing over of the patrol boat is a significant indication of that. “Since your appointment, there has been a flurry of activities. There have been huge seizures across commands. The cocaine seizure at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport was massive and for this, NDLEA must be recognised and commended. We’ll continue to give you all the necessary support. We must continue to work on our relationship to make sure that the current situation continues,” he stated. In his response, Marwa assured the British government that the boat would be put into good use, while thanking them for their investment and support for the war against illicit drugs in the country. “I want to appreciate the American and the British government for the support given to the NDLEA over the years in terms of intelligence sharing, training, equipment and other logistics, and most especially since my assumption of duty as the chairman of the NDLEA. “Let me state categorically that with the new vigour and vigilance of our men and officers at the seaports, airports and land borders which recently resulted in huge seizures, I’m aware that drug traffickers have now turned to our waterways across the borders to bring in drugs. “With the donation of this boat today, I’ll like to warn that the time is up for them also on our waterways because from now they have the NDLEA to contend with there and we’ll deal decisively with them if they fail to back out of the criminal trade,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .