Victor Ani-Laju 2023 Presidential hopeful and founder, ePay, Victor Ani-Laju, has said his journey to re-position Nigerian youths by empowering new talents in education, entertainment and economic growth has begun. Ani-Laju said of his platform, ‘Make Nigeria Great’ which is an organisation that grooms leaders and entrepreneurs. Ani-Laju said in Lagos that Nigerian youths need to be supported and under his platform, HELP, he will train youths in skill acquisition, focusing on entertainment and produce six movies from them based on true-life stories. “There is no doubt that the COVID-19 Pandemic has worsened our challenges of unemployment, poor healthcare system, corruption, lack of infrastructure, low education standard and slow economic growth in Nigeria. “From being a stammering little boy with low self-esteem, I have become a successful entrepreneur and now in the race to contest Nigeria’s 2023 Presidential election. “Our youths need to be re-positioned and helped to release their ample potential. To this end, I am glad to announce that in the area of entertainment, we shall be producing six blockbuster movies with local content based on true life stories of Nigerians living in the South, North, East, West, Central area of Nigeria and also Nigerians living Abroad. These movies will show the world the true great talents in Nigerians and the rich heritage of our motherland. “Our focus is on Healthcare, Housing, Human right, Education, Employment, Economy, Labour, improving Living Wage, Leadership, Power, Productivity and Peace. “We are calling on talented people, scrip writers, actors, actresses, cinematographers, directors, video editors, makeup artist, models, songwriters, musicians, entertainers, sportsmen and women, artisans to send in their entry via our website www.newnigeriapeople.com from Sunday May 14, 2021,” He also added that auditioning for New Talents will commence by May 2021 at different cities nationwide. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .