The Kano/Jigawa Command of the Nigeria custom Service yesterday disclosed the seizure of contraband and smuggled items worth over N270 million Duty Paid Value. The command said it has generated the sum of N5.5 billion as Internally Generated Revenue, IGR between January and March 2021. Area Command Controller, Kano/Jigawa command, Comptroller Suleiman Umar disclosed the seizure while conducting journalists round the seized items at the command headquarters in Kano State. Umar said that Customs is battle-ready to rid the franchise states of smuggled goods. He stated the seizures were made during its smart intelligence-gathering anchored through the joint efforts of Customs Intelligence Unit and Customs Police between January till date. Although the Customs boss did not disclose the figure and identity of those involved, he hinted that the command made detained some people and alleged agents in connection with the seized items. “During our anti-smuggling activities from January till date, the command has made several seizures within it’s area of coverage. Let me restate our commitment to continue to sharpen our intelligence and enforcement capabilities to fight smuggling and enforce compliance with extant laws and procedures to ensure success in the battle against economic saboteurs,” Umar said. “The role of the Nigeria Customs Service in the sustenance of the nation’s economy is very crucial. Also, suppression of the smuggling of prohibited/restricted items into the country is necessary in reducing insecurity and protecting our local industries. “With smart intelligence gathering from CIU and Customs Police, we are able to seize a 1×40 ft container at APMT loaded with 290 bales of second-hand clothes otherwise known as (Okirika) with a Duty Paid Value of over N38 million. “Similarly, we arrested two Exotic cars (Mercedes Benz C43 AMG 4MATIC 2017 Model and Mercedes Benz GLE 53AMG TURBO 2021 Model) both with Chadian embassy plate numbers with Duty paid value of over N83 million. “Other contraband items seized includes, 1,300 (50kg) bags of foreign Rice, 180 jerry Cans of vegetable oil, 50 Cartons of foreign Couscous, 27 Carton of foreign Spaghetti, 15 Cartons of Condensed Milk, and 22 Bales of second-Hand clothes worth over N148 million DPV,” Comptroller Umar stated.” Umar vowed that his men and officers would not relent in fishing out the perpetrators of illegal activities who would not desist from sabotaging the economy of the nation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .