PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the Federal Government to review the 375km Abuja–Kaduna–Zaria–Kano road reconstruction contract awarded at the cost of N797.23 billion. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party sought an investigation into what it called “criminal padding of the contract from the original N155 billion to an outrageous and indefensible N797 billion, with a whopping N642 billion apparently added.” According to PDP, with the approved N797 billion for a 375km road, the Muhammadu Buhari presidency is claiming to be reconstructing a kilometre of road with N2.12 billion. “While the PDP restates its total support for the reconstruction of this very important road, we insist that it will be against the interest of the nation to allow criminal elements in the Buhari administration to hide under the project to steal a staggering N642 billion, which ought to be channelled to other projects that would benefit the people,” the statement declared. PDP charged President Buhari to heed the demands of Nigerians and immediately effect the review before money is released, in the interest of the nation. The review, according to the party, will douse tension already generated by the revelations of the attempt by fraudulent officials to swindle the nation, as well as restore the confidence of the people in the system. “Our party holds that the N642 billion, which would be recovered through the review should be used to fix other important roads in the region and other parts of the country, which have become death traps following a distressing neglect by the Buhari administration,” the statement added. The PDP tasked the Buhari administration to institute and allow open investigation into the contract by relevant bodies, including the National Assembly and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). It also asked that the investigation should cover the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF); the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing; Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation; the Budget Office and others connected with the contract.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .