To cushion the effect of the pandemic on impoverished Nigerians, a political movement called the Tinubu Non Negotiable (TNN23) has announced plans to empower 180 people in three local governments with cash grant of N5,000 in Lagos over the next three weeks.
 
The local governments include Ikeja, Ojodu and Onigbongbo respectively.  He said reducing poverty in the nation and empowering people with vocational tools without financial assistance was not enough to achieve their goals in life.
 
Okunola at the flag-off of the financial empowerment programme in Lagos yesterday said the initiative is a nationwide programme aimed at providing financial assistance to Nigerians, who needed money to support their businesses. He said about 60 people received N5000 cash grants from the financial empowerment programme even as it planned to increase the token and the target audience with the scheme. “The programme is also for you to register with our movement where we would capture your data and create a generic code. Our movement is mobilizing people in the 36 States of the federation to converge in Abuja including members of the Diaspora to call Tinubu to declare his presidential ambition. We started this movement about one and a half years ago because we know Tinubu’s presidential ambition. He has been endorsed and this is why we are starting from our constituency in Ikeja,” he said. “The train moves toward another local government in Ojodu next week Sunday and people who have not benefited today to meet us at Ojodu and from this present moment, every Sunday there will never be a dull moment for Nigerians. This programme is called Tinubu Financial empowerment scheme and it will move from N5000 to N200, 000 and we want Nigerians to know that people can enjoy the dividend of democracy without knowing people in political offices,” he added. He said people’s welfare was non-negotiable, as the movement was making sure that candidates, who are elected in the next election, are candidates who would prioritise development efforts on creating a better life for impoverished Nigerians. He said the programme would last till 2023, adding that the plan was to reach the grassroots in the 774 local government areas across the nation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .