 Charles Chukwuma Soludo  Prominent aspirants on the four front row contending political parties in the November 6 Anambra State governorship poll have began to pull punches and assert their presumed chances to clinch the coveted trophy.
 
Former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor, Prof. Chukwuma Charles Soludo, and Chairman, United Nigeria Airlines, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, at different venues, recently declared their interests to contest the poll. While Okonkwo visited the state secretariat of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Awka, amid fanfare, to inform party leaders and stakeholders of his ambition, Soludo told his people at Isuofia that he was contesting the election on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).  While stressing that his ambition is to make the state and the Southeast “an island of prosperity,” he declared: “God has blessed me beyond imagination, from a poor village boy to the peak of my career as a professor.”
 
He regretted that the Southeast geopolitical zone has become largely unlivable, despite the solid foundation and infrastructure its former leaders laid for its development.
 
Thumbing his chest about his pedigree, the Professor of Economics stated: “I have served in over 25 committees at the federal level and travelled to about 45 countries. My wealth of experience places me above other contestants.
 
“I have done it at the global level and at the national level and now, I want to contribute my quota at the state level. There is nobody else with the global contact and national network or anything 10 per cent near it as I have for the job.”
 
He noted that while Anambra State had been relatively lucky with good governance, in spite of its little resources, the Southeast, on the other hand, remains a “tiny poor place that must begin to turn into a Promised Land.”
 
Soludo added: “For you to create a livable society comparable to any other place, it requires a crusade for all, and it must happen simultaneously in the Southeast.  He, therefore, contended that this year, Soludo should humbly accept the fact that what the state needs is a servant-leader and “not an arrogant academic, who believes that governance is similar to theories and citations.” While announcing his intention to contest the election to a mammoth crowd at Udoka Estate state secretariat of PDP, Okonkwo reminded party leaders and faithful that PDP needs a candidate who can win the election to bounce back in the state. 
 
Pointing to the array of new entrants to the party that joined him to the state secretariat, Okonkwo said it was a strong testimonial that the party needs a winning candidate, stressing, “Here am I, send me!”
 
He said PDP’s quest to upstage APGA in the poll would be enhanced by getting a candidate, whose demography of followership, particularly among the voting population, would tip the balance of votes in the party’s favour.
 
He commended the new entrants and other members from the 21 councils of the state that stormed the secretariat for the event, saying his aspiration has clearly rekindled confidence in the party.
 
State Chairman, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu, alongside other leaders, extolled the new entrants for joining the party and assured them of a credible nomination process that would throw up a candidate that can meet the yearnings of Anambra people in general.
 
In his remarks, Okonkwo said he was humbled by the level of solidarity from Anambra people towards his governorship ambition, adding: “I am indeed humbled by this outpouring of support and solidarity from Ndi Anambra. You have decided to join the PDP based on my decision to contest the governorship, because you believe in me.
 
“Many of you are coming into politics for the first time; many others left other parties and others are now returning to the fold, all because of me. Your action today has placed enormous responsibility on my shoulders, and I shall not fail you.”
 
He said he is in the race to accomplish God-given inspiration to rebuild and reposition the state for higher productivity, stressing that his confidence is in God and the collective will of the people.
 
Maintaining that he was in the race to win, Okonkwo said he has very strong campaign machinery anchored on the vision of massive infrastructural development, knowledge economy and empowerment of the people.
 
While assuring that he would effectively “utilise the party’s ticket to win the election and deliver on the promises,” Okonkwo, who holds a doctorate in Political Economy, said what Anambra needs at the moment, beyond primordial sentiments, is a leader with a vision, capacity, competence and integrity.  “I am encouraged that we have someone like him offering to lead our state. I am attracted also by the fact that in almost 30 years, Okonkwo has worked to create wealth and never at any time earned a salary as a paid worker. This means he knows what to do to make things better for us the youths,” he added.
 
Earlier, PDP chieftain, Prince Azubuike Iloh (Ise Na Ise), while describing Okonkwo as the choice of the people, urged other aspirants to make personal sacrifices by jettisoning their ambition to rally around him in the collective interest of the Anambra people. Other speakers at the occasion commended Okonkwo for venturing into the contest, stressing that it was time Anambra State PDP was rescued from professional politicians, who lack the capacity to win the state for the party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .