 Obi  The odds seem stacked heavily against the Southeast geopolitical zone as it concerns its agitation to produce a President of Igbo extraction. It is also becoming obvious that history is in a hurry to repeat itself concerning the place of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and the 2023 presidential poll.  2023 another puzzling juncture
FAST forward to 2023, it appears history is about to repeat itself. At the build-up to the 2019 General Election, some PDP stalwarts had wanted Atiku to commit to an agreement to serve just for a single term if he wins the presidential poll.
   
Although the demand on documentary commitment was later shelved, aspirants like Ahmed Makarfi, Sule Lamido, and Dr. Ibrahim Dankwambo were thought to have demurred for the fourth republic Vice President to fly the party’s flag at the 2019 presidential poll.  Reviewing the events that followed the 2019 presidential election and shortly after the Supreme Court ruled on the election petition, it was gathered some PDP leaders resolved that since the evidence showed that the party and its standard-bearer, Atiku, won the election, the joint Atiku/Obi presidential ticket should be re-presented come 2023.
   
Bauchi State Governor and chairman of PDP Presidential Election Review Committee, Senator Bala Mohammed, reechoed that sentiment when he appeared on a recent Channels Television programme. The governor stated: “The general impression within the party and within the country is that we actually won the election and that we lost to a lot of fraud, to a lot of manipulations that were perpetrated by either the electoral umpire or by the security operatives.  Umahi’s Vindication, Obi’s Dilemma
Umahi’s Vindication, Obi’s Dilemma
APART from jolting promoters of Southeast for President campaign, Secondus’ announcement was also received in some quarters as a vindication of Governor Dave Umahi’s claim that PDP has decided to zone the Presidency and Vice Presidency outside Southeast.  Winning more important
RIVERS State governor, Ezenwo Nyesom Wike, in a recent television interview stated that winning is more important to PDP than insistence on zoning. He argued that the issue of zoning becomes imperative when you are holding office, stressing that being in opposition to what will determine where PDP’s presidential candidate will come from in 2023 is the potential of the candidate to win the election.  Reconciliation/Reconfiguration
WHILE PDP may favour maintaining the pattern of its zoning in previous polls, sources disclosed that the party is working at a situation whereby the next Senate President would emerge from Northwest geopolitical in a bid to ensure that possible presidential aspirants from the zone are placated. The reconfiguration according to insiders entails also that the next national chairman of the party would come from North Central and must be a former governor or Senate President.
   
The decision to cede the national chairmanship of the party to North-central instead of Southwest is aimed to sustain the reconciliation and integration of the Southwest by achieving a delicate balance between rival factions in the zone.  In a statement announcing the cheerful development Okorie stated: “I am directed by the chairman of the PDP National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, to announce that today, the committee has successfully concluded the resolution of the decade-old crisis in the Ogun State Chapter of the PDP.
   
“This crisis that has lingered on for the past 10 years between the groups led by late Buruji Kashamu and Hon. Ladi Adebutu with each of them instituting different court cases, obtaining injunctions, and dissolving executive committees.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .