Six Dr. Seuss Books To Stop Being Published Because Of Racist Imagery Dr. Seuss Enterprises has announced that six of the famed author’s books will stop being published due to racist and insensitive imagery. On Tuesday, which marks “Read Across America Day” and the late author’s birthday, Dr. Seuss Enterprises told the Associated Press that titles including And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street and If I Ran the Zoo will no longer go into distribution. The company said: These books portray people in ways that are hurtful and wrong. Ceasing sales of these books is only part of our commitment and our broader plan to ensure Dr. Seuss Enterprises’ catalog represents and supports all communities and families. Other affected titles include McElligot’s Pool, On Beyond Zebra!, Scrambled Eggs Super!, and The Cat’s Quizzer. The decision to halt publication of the books was made last year after months of deliberation, Dr. Seuss Enterprises said. Dr. Seuss Enterprises listened and took feedback from our audiences including teachers, academics, and specialists in the field as part of our review process. We then worked with a panel of experts, including educators, to review our catalog of titles. This is not the first time he has received criticism for using insensitive imagery in his beloved books. In 2019, a study argued that many of the author’s classic children’s books are racist and problematic, and only two percent of his characters represent people of colour as reported by The People. However, Dr. Seuss Enterprises, added that it is “committed to listening and learning and will continue to review our entire portfolio.” On Monday, President Joe Biden also refrained from mentioning the late children’s author in his Read Across America Day proclamation. While previous presidents have highlighted the author in their annual proclamations, Biden did not disclose why he left Dr. Seuss out of his message. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .