 Lawrence Achudume  Beloved of God, it’s time to speak what you want to see. We are not to live our lives at the mercy of the situation. The only time Jesus did not speak to a situation was at Gethsemane and when they came to arrest Him because it has been written. Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it must be? Matthew 26:53-54 At other times, He spoke, and even the wind and the sea obeyed His voice of change, sickness bowed and death let Lazarus go free at His voice. Whatever scripture has not spoken concerning you, you can change. The Bible and history bearers record that great changes and revolution that changed the world has come by a man standing to the challenge to speak words that moved men and situation for a change. Several Scriptures abound of how God will raise a man just to speak to a nation, people or situation that His will be done. And the LORD took me as I followed the flock, and the LORD said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel. Amos 7:15 The voice of Elisha turned the daily weeping of the men of the city of Jericho into dancing. And the men of the city said unto Elisha, Behold, I pray thee, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord seeth: but the water is nought, and the ground barren. And he said, Bring me a new cruse, and put salt therein. And they brought it to him.
And he went forth unto the spring of the waters, and cast the salt in there, and said, Thus saith the LORD, I have healed these waters; there shall not be from thence any more death or barren land. So the waters were healed unto this day, according to the saying of Elisha which he spake.
2 Kings 2:19-22
Your word can do the same. Confession/Declaration
 • Today will be a very good day; I shall make the good harvest of blessings. My mouth shall speak wisdom and my heart shall receive understanding. My mouth shall speak of wisdom, and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding. Psalms 49:3 • Let my angels carry out every word of my mouth as they live up with the word of God to establish my destiny in Christ and order my steps today. The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD: and he delighteth in his way.    Psalms 37:23 • Today, I shall meet the right people and helpers of my destiny. “And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man.”  Luke 2:52 • Evil shall be far from me today. For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield. Psalms 5:12 • Today, I shall have divine, unplanned appointments that will give and bring me promotion/increase. • I shall be delivered from the wrong people; enemies of joy shall not cross my path and I shall walk in divine direction. I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way, which thou shalt go: I will guide thee with mine eye. Psalms 32:8. Funso Adeniyi-Martins, Victory Life Bible Church Intl, Off Km 9, Olabisi Onabanjo Way opp OGTV, Ajebo road, Abeokuta, Ogun State.
Mobile- +234 703-8596-246 website-www.vlbcinternational.org To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .