Proudly Nigerian hair extension brand, Lush Hair, recently launched a hair styling academy at zero cost to both existing stylists and aspiring Nigerian youths who have expressed interest in professional hair making and styling. The academy is in collaboration with the Lagos Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Development and Make-Me professional institute Surulere. The workshop is designed for all Nigerian youths who want to sharpen their skills and learn about ways to enhance their creativity in professional hair making/styling from experts who already have made remarkable impact in the industry. The programme aims at keeping potential students updated on the latest hairstyles, trends, products, equipment handling and styling techniques amongst other skills. According to the brand Manager, Lush Hair, Ritambhara Kakkar, the initiative was borne out of the realisation that lots of Nigerian youths who are unemployed still have the zeal to become entrepreneurs but due to some constraints, they cannot start out on their own. In view of this, they decided to encourage youths who are recognised as the future of the nation, with a vocational training opportunity to start up a profitable business. On the other hand, existing stylists who may want to sharpen their skills to build on previous knowledge are equally welcome to participate at no cost. The academy is a weekly programme, which will run through the end of the year and minimum of 40 students will be taken per class for 40 weeks. “Another advantage of this training is that several celebrity hair stylists are already on board to coach through different aspects of hair styling throughout the year, such as, braiding, natural hair, crotchet and bridal hair styling, Ghana weaving and so on. The opportunity to learn from industry professionals will provide deep insight as to what it takes to be successful on the job” she noted. To further lend credence to the project, the Lagos Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation endorsed the Academy, congratulating the brand on initiating yet another gigantic stride towards impacting people’s lives positively. According to the commissioner, Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Cecilia Bolaji Dada, who was represented by the ministry’s director, Olufunke Shyllon, this is certainly a life-transforming empowerment opportunity, which does not present itself all the time, she urged participants to take advantage of it. PHOTO CAPTION: Sponsorship Manager, Tolaram Group, Opeyemi Awojobi; marketing executive, Lush Hair, Folasade Oluwafemi; Director, Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs Poverty Alleviation, Olufunke Shyllon and Public Relations Manager, Tolaram Group, Omotayo Abiodun during the formal launch of Lush Hair Academy, held in Lagos…recently.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .