DPR Warri Zonal Office of the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has sealed seven filling stations at Oleh in Delta for sharp practices. Mr Olakanmi Ayodeji, the Assistant Director, Operation, DPR, Warri Zonal Office, told newsmen in Warri on Thursday that the erring filling stations were sealed on Tuesday. Ayodeji named the stations at Oleh in Isoko South Local Government Area of the state as Robor Nig. Ltd; Felimbuk Nig. Ltd and AP Oleh service station. The others are Eskom Electrical Ltd,  Mama G Divine Project, Dipaag Oil and Gas and another Felimbuk Nig. Ltd. Ayodeji said that they were sanctioned for various offences ranging from under-dispensing, operating without valid licence and hoarding. He said that the DPR surveillance team visited 17 outlets in the Ughelli/Isoko axis and shut down the seven stations. The DPR official said that four of the remaining 10 filling stations were without products. Ayodeji said that the agency would sustain surveillance across the state to check sharp practices among marketers. The assistant director said that the offenders would pay the stipulated fines to the Federal Government before their filling stations would be re-opened. “DPR sealed seven petrol stations over various offences ranging from under-dispensing, operating without valid licenses and hoarding. “The exercise was successful and we will continue to do follow up in the area and other parts of the state. “We already have in our guidelines,  fines stipulated for the various offences. Once they (offenders) pay, we will unsealed and monitor them to ensure they do not under-dispense to the public. “We do not want the public to be short-changed; we make sure they sell the right product, quantity and quality. That is the essence of the surveillance,’’ he said. Ayodeji warned marketers against hoarding products. “Our people have been to the depots and trucks are loading, so marketers should not hoard products, anyone caught will be dealt with according to the DPR rules and regulations,’’ he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .