Beyonce: Pop Queen With The Most Grammys Pop megastar Beyonce made Grammys history Sunday by becoming the woman with the most Grammy awards ever at the music industry’s top awards gala, and its most decorated singer, with 28 career wins. She secured the record after scooping Best R&B Performance honors for her hit “Black Parade,” a single celebrating Black culture and activism that dropped in the wake of mass protests ignited by the death of George Floyd, a Black man, in police custody in the summer of 2020. Overall, the 39-year-old, who initially rose to fame as part of the girl group Destiny’s Child before embarking on a wildly successful solo career, won four trophies on the night. “I am so honored. I’m so excited,” said the singer, who made a surprise showing at an event she has skipped for the past several years, wearing a curve-hugging black leather Schiaparelli mini-dress. “As an artist, I believe it’s my job and all of our jobs to reflect the times. And it’s been such a difficult time,” Beyonce said, with her rap mogul husband Jay-Z looking on. Critics praised “Black Parade” for Beyonce’s strong vocals as well as its lyrics that simultaneously condemn racism, issue a call for activism and pay homage to Black culture. Proceeds from the song, which dropped on Juneteenth, a holiday on June 19 commemorating the end of slavery in the United States, benefit Beyonce’s Black Business Impact Fund, which supports Black-owned small businesses. “I wanted to uplift, encourage, celebrate all of the beautiful Black queens and kings that continue to inspire me and inspire the whole world,” Beyonce said on Sunday. Beyonce is also the most-awarded artist at the BET Awards and the Soul Train Awards. With a total of 28 awards and 79 nominations from the Grammy Awards for her music (including her work in Destiny’s Child and The Carters). She is the most awarded and nominated woman and the second-most awarded person in Grammy history, tied with Quincy Jones and behind conductor Sir Georg Solti. With 13 awards, Beyoncé is the eighth-most awarded artist at the Billboard Music Awards.