 Igbinedion University, Okada, Edo State  Speaking at the 22nd matriculation ceremony of the university, which held physically and online via zoom and other social media platforms, Sambo said the feat the university had achieved in creating entrepreneurs instead of job seekers was an attestation to its founder and Chancellor, Chief Gabriel Osawaru Igbinedion’s quest for excellence. Sambo said while the security challenges in the country have some direct relationship with massive job deficit, IUO had set the pace for breeding graduates with the ability to handle high skilled jobs. He advised the matriculating students to take advantage of world-class teaching and learning facilities provided by the institution to be change agents. “Our educational system must be a value-driven one. An educational value-driven system is imperative, especially at this critical time when the unemployment rate has continued to pose a greater challenge to our existence as a nation. “The insecurity in Nigeria has a direct relationship with massive job deficit facing us as a nation. This translates to poverty rate and restiveness, especially among the youths. “Therefore, we must focus on an approach that creates job opportunities, wealth, reduces poverty among our people and ultimately closes the social inequality and promote cohesion in our communities,” Sambo said.
 
Speaking, Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Lawrence Ezemonye, said the institution was setting new standards in producing future-ready and innovation-driven students in line with the institution’s smart campus and entrepreneurial inclusive vision. Guest Speaker and Technical Adviser on Gas Business and Policy Implementation to Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Justice Derefaka, who also joined via zoom spoke on: Refocusing Value-Driven Education In The Digital Age Through The Lens Entrepreneurship, Enterprise And Global Competitiveness: Lessons For Nigeria. He expressed satisfaction with the management of the institution, noting that Nigeria’s first premier private university was a leading ivory tower in the country. Presenting a plaque to Sambo, which was received by Deputy Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA), Roland Asoro, he (Ezemonye) lauded the qualities of the former Vice President, noting that his contributions to the educational development of the country earned him the honour. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .