S. I. Okelezoh Evil science on earth has a lot of features that have entered into the hearts of men. And they include deceit. Its main aim is to deceive man. It opposes God’s truth, as it always speaks of falsehood. It promises good health and good life in deceit. Its idea of good life or health is to bring sorrow. Only God gives good life and health and adds no sorrows. It seeks to establish a separate kingdom, government from God’s original plan. It alludes to God’s revelation truth as conspiracy theory. This science pushes man to believe that God’s truth is like myths not to be believed. It disconnects faith, trust and belief in the true God. Because men see God’s truth as conspiracy, they have refused to believe and trust in it. It sets up a mental debate, argument against the warnings of God to humanity, concerning the reality of the consequences of disobedience leading to death. Because men have refused to believe in God’s truth, they do not believe in the consequences of disobedience to God’s laws. Satan’s tradition is that he first causes a falling away before the Son of God comes into the Garden of Eden.
Genesis 3:7-8,23-24 [7] And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons. [8] And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden. [23] Therefore the LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken. [24] So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life. In the End Time (last days) before Jesus will come to the global Garden of believers, Satan will re-enact a final falling away that precedes Christ’s coming. 2 Thessalonians 2:3-4, 8-10
[3] Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition; [4] Who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, shewing himself that he is God.
[8] And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming: [9] Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,
[10] And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved. Believers must be watchful! Bishop Dr. S. I. Okelezoh, Ministry Of Perfection Church
ighokesam@gmail.com  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .