  Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, his deputy, Mrs. Cecilia Ezeilo and the State Chief Judge, Justice Priscilla Ngozi Emehelu, yesterday, received COVID-19 vaccination at the Government House, Enugu. Ugwuanyi and the two others were the first key stakeholders in the state to receive the Oxford AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines. The event was witnessed by the wife of the governor, Mrs. Monica Ugochi Ugwuanyi; the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Emmanuel Ikechukwu Obi; Executive Secretary, Enugu State Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Dr. George Ugwu; representatives of the development partners and trained health personnel, and others. Ugwu had during the commencement of the vaccination exercise with frontline health workers on Friday, disclosed that the next stage of the vaccination would be for key stakeholders of political, religious and traditional institutions as well as elderly people with underlying illnesses, among other identified people. The first recipient of the jab in the state, Dr. Okechukwu Ogbodo, a frontline health worker at ESUT Teaching Hospital Isolation and Treatment Centre, Enugu, had encouraged the people of Enugu State to take the vaccine, saying: “I can tell you that almost 30 minutes after taking the vaccine, I am hale and hearty; no reaction.  So, I want to encourage everybody in Enugu State to come and take the vaccine.” MEANWHILE, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday, implored the Igbo to accept and take COVID-19 vaccines, describing the fear over its authenticity as baseless. A statement in Abakaliki, signed by Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, urged the leaders of the Ndigbo, especially the governors, to educate the people on the importance of the vaccine in eradicating the deadly pandemic that have ravaged the whole world. He further urged the governors to place sanctions on erring medical professionals caught in mischievous acts of sabotaging the process. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .