Sanwo-Olu Gifts Nollywood’s Mama Awero 3-Bedroom Apartment Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has gifted veteran Nollywood actress Lanre Hassan a three-bedroom apartment in a new post on Lagos State Blog. The veteran Yoruba actress who is popularly known as Iya Awero, on March 24, received the apartment from the newly commissioned Prince Abiodun Ogunleye Housing Estate, Igbogbo, for her decades-long contribution to the Nigerian film industry. The veteran actor was on the verge of being ejected from her rented apartment when the Governor intervened. The housing project was formally inaugurated on Wednesday at an event attended by all Government functionaries and traditional rulers in the Ikorodu division. He named the scheme after former Deputy Governor and All Progressives Congress (APC) apex leader in Ikorodu, Prince Abiodun Ogunleye. To confirm the news, the chief press secretary to the governor, Gboyega Akosile shared a video of the presentation via Twitter. Breaking: Governor @jidesanwoolu gives nollywood veteran, Mrs Lanre Hassan (Mama Awero) a three bedroom flat in the newly commissioned Prince Abiodun Ogunleye Housing Estate, Igbogbo.#ForAGreaterLagos#Nollywood @channelstv @PulseNigeria247 @Gidi_Traffic @lollylarry1 pic.twitter.com/Eyk1suB7Ed — Gboyega Akosile (@gboyegaakosile) March 24, 2021  Upon receiving the keys, the 70-year-old thespian gave a heartwarming speech, thanking the governor for his kind gesture. I don’t know what to say. I am so short of words. I am so happy today. Thank you so much, my governor, may the Almighty Allah continue to bless you. Also, deputy, thank you so much. I am so grateful. If anyone shelters you whenever you wake up, all you do is pray for the person. God will keep blessing, helping, and supporting you. This our land will be peaceful, God will fix Nigeria and take the country to greater heights. Once again I thank everyone for this gift. Speaking at the presentation, Sanwo-Olu noted that his administration is committed to celebrating veteran thespians especially while they are alive. We don’t need to celebrate them when they die, we can celebrate them while they are still alive. These are our Nollywood stars that have worked for over 30-40 years and they need to be celebrated. Congratulations ma. Thank you. Mama Awero is no stranger to the Nollywood Industry as she has featured in so many films, including the popular ‘King of Boys’.