The national finals of the Principal’s Cup earlier scheduled to hold from April 1 to 5 is now billed to hold from March 27 to 31. According to the Chairman of the Main Organising Committee (MOC), Dr. Demola Are, the change would give the students participating in the championship enough time to prepare and write their exams. “The students’ academics must be given priority, that is why we don’t want the matches too close to their exams. Sports and education must go side by side and we want to always  strike the right balance,” he said. Meanwhile, zonal champions of the competition have emerged from respective zones as the national finals slated for Abuja draws near.
The Ministry of Youth and Sports and the marketers of the event, Hideaplus, say they are putting finish touches to the arrangements to make the final a memorable one in Abuja. From the South West Zone, Orile Comprehensive High School Odeda emerged champions after beating progress Comprehensive High School 2-1. Christ Comprehensive, Mikira, Kaduna picked the North Central ticket at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium in Kaduna after beating Army Secondary School 4-0, just as Obule Integrated School, Sapele, Delta State, emerged champions from the South South zone after hostilities in Port Harcourt. Fosla Academy, Abuja, owned by former President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Alhaji Sanni Lulu, beat Our Lady of School, Kogi State by 2 goals to 1 to emerge as the North Central champions while From North East, Abdulkadir Benisheikh, Borno State were 3-0 better than Government Day Secondary School, Fantami, Gombe. 
 
Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium hosted the South East zonal finals in Enugu as City Comprehensive College, Owerri, Imo State defeated National Grammar School, Enugu 3-0 to pick the National Finals ticket. Hideaplus CEO, Tony Pemu on Tuesday said the Abuja finals would be highly entertaining and competitive. “There were plenty goals in the zonal finals and we expect a tight battle for semifinals tickets and I am sure the ministry has concluded arrangements to have a very explosive finals,” Pemu said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .