Prince Albert Of Monaco Says Meghan And Prince Harry’s Interview Is Inappropriate In an extraordinary put-down, Prince Albert of Monaco said the couple should have shared their “dissatisfaction” with royal life “within the intimate quarters of the family”. Speaking to the BBC World News, Prince Albert, 63, said: I think this type of public display of dissatisfaction, these types of conversations should be held within the intimate quarters of the family. It doesn’t really have to be laid out in the public sphere like that. So it did bother me a little bit, I can understand where they’re coming from in a certain way, but I think it wasn’t the appropriate forum to be able to have these kinds of discussions. His comments refer to the explosive interview earlier this month in which the Duke and Duchess of Sussex told Oprah that a member of the family had asked what colour their then-unborn son Archie’s skin would be. This was later confirmed not to be the Queen or Prince Philip – but the identity of the ‘royal racist’ remains unknown. Prince Albert, the son of American movie star Grace Kelly, said that while he understood the pressures the couple were under, the interview did “bother” him. Meghan and Harry’s televised chat with Oprah sparked a royal crisis, as several members of the family came under fire. Prince Charles was left “deeply hurt” after Harry claimed his father stopped taking his calls after Megxit and said there was a “lot of hurt” between them. Harry has recently announced two new roles in the US, where he lives with his pregnant wife and their son Archie in Los Angeles. He shared that he is to join the think tank Aspen Institute’s new Commission on Information Disorder, as well as taking up the role of chief impact officer at professional coaching and mental health firm BetterUp. Advising Harry on his new life, Prince Albert said: I wish him the best but it’s a difficult world out there, and I hope that he can have judgment and wisdom to make the right choices. Prince Albert, who is married to South African former Olympic swimmer Charlene Wittstock, is one of the wealthiest royals in the world as the head of the princely house of Grimaldi and the reigning Prince of Monaco – home of the super-rich.