The Nigeria School Sport Federation (NSSF) yesterday began a move to reposition school sports through a two-day strategic management seminar for sports officers and coordinators. At the opening ceremony of the seminar in Lagos yesterday, NSSF President Olabisi Joseph said there was need to impart new ideas into those in charge of sports across the country, hence the essence of the seminar. “We believe that sports is a veritable tool to keep our children from social vices and for us at NSSF, we want to ensure that our students are taught the right things by those in charge of sports in our various schools across the country. That is one of the reasons we decided to organise this seminar because the world is changing and we must also change with it especially with what obtains across the globe. This training will help our sports coordinators and SUBEB officers to be in tune with what obtains globally and to make them more efficient in their various states,” Joseph said during her welcome address. At the seminar, the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC), Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC) and the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) hailed the leadership of NSSF for their forward-looking efforts at raising the fortune of sports in schools. In his remarks, NOC Secretary General, Olabanji Oladapo, said the step taken by NSSF in the last one year has indeed positioned the federation in a good light that they wanted the best for our students in terms of sports. We are going to partner them to organise more training for sports coordinators and we believe this kind of training would help to improve the fortune of sports in schools. Oladapo, however, hailed the collaboration between sports and education, which, he said, was what the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has been promoting globally. Executive Chairman, LSSC Sola Ayepekun, hailed NSSF for their deliberate efforts to change the face of school sports in the country, which, he said, was in tandem with their ideals in Lagos State. Specifically, the LSSC boss believes the ever-changing world needs dynamic people to remain relevant in terms of sports, adding that sports was not what it used to be in the heydays. For the Executive Chairman, Lagos SUBEB, Alawiye King, the training would surely impact the students while urging the participants to be ready to tap from the vast knowledge of the resource persons listed for the exercise. “I am indeed impressed with what NSSF is doing and I believe with this kind of effort, we can surely see that those that will train our students are qualified with the right knowledge to impact in schools. We will surely work with NSSF and we welcome the partnership between education and sports which would surely help to improve the lots of school sports across the country,” King said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .