Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport in Kano State. Photo/Twitter/FAAN_Official The House of Representatives has urged the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to urgently address critical challenges impeding the resumption of international flight at Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Kano State. House Leader, Alhassan Doguwa, who led members of Kano/Jigawa joint caucus at the green chamber to inspect the airport, frowned on the continued shutdown of international flight from Kano. The Federal Government shut down airports across the country in March 2020 to curtail the spread of the dreaded coronavirus disease (COVID-19). While domestic flight reopened in June 2020 across the country, only Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, and Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja, were opened in September 2020 for international operators. Doguwa (representing Doguwa/Tudunwa constituency of Kano State) was worried that the suspension crippled economic activities and rendered hundreds of people jobless. Noting the strategic position of MAKIA to Northern Nigeria, the lawmaker insisted that FAAN had no compelling justification to render the ever-busy international terminal dormant in the name of COVID-19. While assuring the management of FAAN of legislative support to overcome operational challenges, he expressed confidence that the Federal Government would not ignore the National Assembly’s intervention in immediate re-opening of international flight at the airport. “Our visit to Kano airport was in continuation of similar visit to the Minister of Aviation on the re-opening of international flight at Kano airport. This airport, alongside Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt, were shut due to COVID-19 and the need to enforce safety measures. “Based on our interaction with the minister, we understand something we need to be put in place. We hope this is resolved as soon as possible to ease Kano and northern Nigeria of the huge economic loss,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .