 Abosede George-Ogan  Last year marked the 25th anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action – the novel universal model for pushing forward women’s empowerment, as well as gender equality. Distant as the declaration of the Beijing World Conference on Women may appear, the anniversary provided an opportunity for sober reflection, stock taking/appraisal of the different components of the dream, including an assessment of women’s participation in political processes and decision-making. Over the years, rights activists, civil society groups, and individuals have described women’s participation in politics and the political process as a human right, which is central to both sustainable development and flourishing democracy. While hopes of closing the gender gap in politics this century remain forlorn, some countries have, no doubt, made some progress, no matter how marginal. This much is reflected in the global average of women in national parliaments, which has more than doubled since 1995, as it moved from 11.3 per cent in 1995 to 24.4 per cent as obtained lately. Nigeria, unfortunately, has been posting poor performances as far as low participation of women in both appointive and elective positions is concerned. This is despite over 51 per cent of voters in most elections being female. Efforts so far made by the government and non-governmental organisations to shore women’s participation in politics in line with the Beijing Declaration, which advocated 30 per cent affirmative action have not paid off. Ibijoke Faborode  Be that as it may, the return of democratic rule to the country has, once again, led to an increase in women political participation, both in elective and appointive offices. According to Mrs. Oloyede Oluyemi of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Abuja, in a paper titled, “Monitoring Participation Of Women In Politics in Nigeria,” the national average of women’s political participation in Nigeria has remained 6.7 per cent in elective and appointive positions, which is far below the Global Average of 22.5 per cent, Africa regional average of 23.4 per cent, and West African sub-regional Average of 15 per cent. Making reference to the 2015 federal cabinet, she said, “For instance, out of the 36 recently confirmed ministerial appointments by the administration now in power, only six are women, representing 16.7 per cent. In the National Assembly, women constitute 5.6 per cent of members of the House of Representatives and 6.5 per cent of the senators. Also with the 15 years of uninterrupted democratic governance (1999-2015), Nigeria is yet to produce a female governor in any of the 36 states of the federation.” Over the years, Nigeria has subscribed to international agreements and instituted policies aimed at improving women’s representation in the entire political milieu, but so little has been done to implement concrete measures that would help those policies flourish. Even capacity building and behavioural change programmes at the behest of civil society organisations and international funders have yielded little or no dividend. Without a doubt, the major factor that is taking the wind out of the sail of female politicians, especially those that run for elective offices is the lack of finance to spend on electioneering. Other factors, which explain the lack of women’s representation in the political arena include religious and cultural/traditional practices; corrupt and patronage-based political system; widespread violence at elections, including against female candidates, the absence of effective government action to stem the tide, as well as the pathetic levels of female employment and education among others. Since 1999, prominent groups, individuals, including female politicians who have been at the receiving end of this menace have continued to lament their inability to trade tackles with their male counterparts on the political turf due to these factors. But nothing can be more heartwarming than the move by ElectHER, unveiling its Agender35 campaign, a deliberate effort to significantly de-risk the process of women running for elective office, and increasing women’s political representation in the country by 2023. This, it intends to do through a three-point agenda – starting with the setting up a $10m fund to empower 1, 000 women, and directly fund 35 women to decide, run and win in the 2023 elections; advocate for the legislation of a minimum of 35 per cent women’s representation quota in appointive and elective office, as well as sensitise voters and engage citizens on the compelling need for women’s representation ahead of 2023. ElectHER, a non-partisan organisation focused on getting women into elective office, is an end-to-end women’s political advancement organisation bridging inequality gaps in African politics, by addressing the under-representation of Nigerian women in elective offices, through behavioral change communications; skills development, human capital mobilisation and campaign financing, with the end-goal of enabling capable women to competitively decide, run and win elections. Of the targeted sum of $10m, the group has already secured $2m to empower women and directly fund not less than 35 women to decide, run and win in the coming general elections.
  
According to the group, the gross under-representation of Nigerian women in elective office poses a severe threat to nation-building and socio-economic growth, given that women constitute about 50 per cent of the population. To put this into context, the country currently has the lowest representation of women across parliaments on the continent, a dismal 4.1 per cent. In 2019, only five out of 73 candidates ran for the presidency, and none of them was among the top three most voted candidates in the presidential race. Also, the adverse effect of this inequality gap has led to poor policy outcomes and the low prioritisation of social development over the years, crippling socio-economic progression in the country. Shedding some light on Agender35, the Co-founder/Executive Director of ElectHER, Ibijoke Faborode, described it is a movement that requires the collective effort of all critical stakeholders- citizens, the media, political parties, the private sector, and the government. She stressed: “If we maintain the current level of ignorance on socio-political issues, there will be no country in the next two decades. This is why the bold support from Platform Capital Group- a critical private sectorally, and Agender35 anchor partner who have committed $2m through its impact division- Diatom Impact, presents an enabling environment to effectively challenge the status quo and foster multi-stakeholder partnerships…”
   
Over the next months, ElectHER will launch a series of targeted, institutional, and crowdfunding activities including the WomenforWomen Fund; Citizen Campaign Fund for Women; HNI Fundraising Rounds; ElectHER Hollywood Fund just to mention a few. Elections in Nigeria are capital intensive, as such if we are serious about achieving better outcomes in 2023, we must empower female candidates financially,” Faborode added.  “At Platform Capital Group, our obsession with changing the African narrative is holistic and not limited to business alone. We believe that promoting women in leadership and supporting their participation in politics and policymaking across all levels of society is critical to ensure that the Africa of tomorrow emerges,” the Chairman, Platform Capital Group, Dr. Akintoye Akindele said. Akindele added: “We are supporting Agender35, through our partnership with ElectHER, to fund, deliver programmes and resources to empower and equip women to the campaign, run and be elected for offices.” On steps to improving women’s participation in politics, politician and activist, Ndi Kato said women need to be more than ornaments during elections. “We need more women to run for offices and actually win. We are entering another election season and all the things we said we were going to do in the last election season have been overtaken by events. First, political parties need to have 35 per cent affirmative action within the party’s structures. When women want to run for offices, they are not even enough women in the parties. It is also very difficult for women to obtain party tickets, and the men there don’t even believe in women’s candidacy. This is a major issue. Sadly, women have been conditioned to put others above themselves, and politics is no different. Another thing we must see through is ensuring that political parties have women’s wings. A women’s wing would help women get structure within the party, and women can lean on it to negotiate for more. We are trying to see how we can work with the PDP to enshrine this.  When young men who are activists like myself say something about the state of the nation, no matter how mundane, it is reported by all mainstream media, but if I speak about Middle Belt politics and banditry, it would only end up on social media timelines. I have said a lot about Nigeria’s current situation but when history is reviewing these things, my name wouldn’t be there, and when future generations are talking about these things, we would still be asking how we can improve women’s participation despite everything women politicians and activists is doing now. We need to improve women’s coverage as much as possible, prioritise women, map women who have built their names so we don’t ask next year and the year after why women are ‘not talking’. The more we are seen in national conversations, the more people begin to see us as national voices, and the leaders that we are.
   
“Sadly, violence against women in politics is so rampant. After that PDP woman leader in Kogi State was burnt to death, how many women in that community do you think would involve themselves in politics? We must amplify these violent acts against women politicians because these acts of violence discourage other women from joining politics. There is so much stigma against women in politics; women are expected to be saints and without blemish, yet male politicians get away with so much.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .