The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and opposition party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo state yesterday continued to trade words over the latters membership registration and validation exercise, describing it as abysmally poor and a failure. In a statement made available to journalists, spokesperson for the PDP in Edo, Chris Nehikhare said on Monday, the APC had announced a very long and exhaustive list of members into what they described as ‘Contact/Strategy Committee’, which it said was a failure. He added that the APC leaders as far as Abuja is concerned, are political hustlers and boasters. He alleged that the national secretariat of the APC reached this decision when they were presented with the report of their recently concluded registration and validation exercise, noting it was an abysmal and catastrophic failure. The PDP said the APC is a disappointment to Nigerians who voted it into power and were fed up with the high level of poverty, banditry, insecurity and failure to live up to expectations of the people. The APC in a swift reaction said the PDP is currently engaged in a grand self-deception of unimaginable proportions. Spokesman of Edo APC, Chris Azebamwan, said that the nebulous claims that the registration and validation exercise was a failure is unfounded and a lie. Azebamwan maintained that the PDP, rather than face and address the unpleasant situation that they have found themselves, prefer to shift public attention and focus by making nebulous claims. He added that the spurious claims are typical of the PDP, whose stock in trade is using the strategy of lies in their propaganda onslaughts. “All the visible organs of government are in a state of inertia and the PDP in Edo State would rather go to town with their tales by moonlight and manufacture scenarios that are a figment of their imagination. They should focus on how they can deliver on their campaign promises to our people and address kidnappings, armed robbery, banditry and other crimes. They should address the infrastructural decay and roads that are not motorable especially in light of the coming rains; engage our teeming youths, women and create an enabling environment for work and investment.” Azebamwan said theses are serious problems that should occupy the PDP and any responsible government but instead, the widespread popularity and acceptance of the APC by the people of Edo State is choking them and giving them sleepless nights. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .