 OLUYAMO  In summary, hope is the confident expectation, the sure certainty that what God has promised in the Word is true, has occurred, and or will in accordance with God’s sure Word.
Benefits Of Having Hope: • It gives us joy and peace:
Even in the midst of any crisis, hope brings undiluted joy and peace. “Now may the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. Romans 15:13. • It gives us protection.
When we hope on the Lord and also put our faith in Him, He will surely protect us from any danger, troubles or crises we may find ourselves. See what is happening in the world today— kidnapping of people, COVID-19 Pandemic, ritualists everywhere, killing of innocent people, here and there, especially those Fulani herdsmen, Boko Haram people and fraud, among others. But, “Behold, the eye of the LORD is on those who fear Him, on those who hope for His loving-kindness”. Psalm 33:18. Therefore, if we put our hope on Him as the passage says, He will keep His eye on us and protect us from all kinds of crises. • It gives us strength, courage, boldness.
“Be strong, and let your heart take courage, All you who hope in the LORD” Psalm 31:24. Because the Lord does not give us the spirit of fear, so when we hope in Him, He strengthens and gives us the courage to face any form of crises. • It gives us endurance, comfort, confidence in the face of death. “After you have suffered for a little while, the God of grace, the one who called you into his eternal glory in Christ Jesus, will Himself restore, empower, strengthen, and established you”. I Peter 5:10. Hope in God gives us the grace to endure in time of crises and also face it, even if it leads to death, it gives us the confidence. Just as Jesus did on His way to the cross, He endured the pains and tribulation and also led Him to death. But during His crises, He trusted and hoped in God, which finally led to eternal joy. (Bishop Isaac I. Oluyamo, PhD., JP, Is The Bishop Of Ijesa North Anglican Diocese)  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .