NDLEA to screen politicians from 2023
Chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (rtd.) has called for urgent strengthening of international cooperation to manage new manifestations of drug trafficking. Marwa made the appeal yesterday at the 14th United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, in Kyoto, Japan. “The criminals and organised criminal groups have deployed new strategies through increased online criminal activities to navigate the global shutdown of traditional trafficking routes following the COVID-19 pandemic. There is, therefore, urgent need to strengthen regional and international cooperation to identify and manage the various jurisdictional manifestations of this ugly trend,” he told the world while speaking for Nigeria. While updating the world on the country’s response to the drug scourge, the NDLEA chief executive said the country “is addressing and countering illicit trafficking in drugs through integrated and balanced approach implemented under the National Drug Control Master Plan (NDCMP), introduced from 2015 to 2019 and revised for another five years, from 2021 to 2025.” The NDCMP outlines strategies to neutralise threats to law enforcement efforts by strengthening regional and international cooperation in countering illicit trade and trafficking in narcotic drugs, he noted. MEANWHILE, Marwa has disclosed that the agency would from 2023 general elections start drug test on politicians to stem the increasing number of political thugs. According to him, politicians recruit and induce the thugs with hard drugs. During a visit to Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, on Tuesday, Marwa had said: “Politicians would soon be subjected to drug test. The era of inducing the youths with drugs to become political thugs will soon be over in the country.” He, however, disclosed that NDLEA would monitor all political parties’ activities, to prevent them from brewing drug addicts in the name of politics. Governor Fintiri appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to increase the budgetary allocations to the agency to enable it carry out its constitutional tasks diligently. He said the improved financial empowerment would strengthen the ongoing war against drug abuse. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .