 African Development Bank Group (AfDB)  “But my concern is that when you encourage countries to go back to the capital markets when we still have so much debt on our hands, I will suggest we put that money aimed to address poverty to support countries to clear off their debts and use some of it to stabilize their reserves.  This all makes it very costly for debtors. What is more, is that the authorities in debtor countries are often warry of acting early on debt restructuring due to the potential effect on their reputation in the market. Not acting early and anticipating debt default has however proven costly for the continent.
  
“The international architecture of debt resolution needs fixing. One step is that direction has been taken recently including the adoption of a Common Framework by the G20, which is coming on top of the debt service suspension initiative.
  
“The adoption of the framework allows debt relief initiatives by official creditors to potentially translate into relief by private creditors. The recent warnings by certain rating agencies to countries asking to benefit from the common framework point to serious obstacles”, he added.  He said debt repayment has to be very comprehensive, noting that the private sector has not been very cooperative by not joining in the debt sustainability initiative in a way that they would have made it more effective. “This is why some of us are urging the government of the creditor countries to take actions to help facilitate participation. In other words, push the private sector to face up to reality. You cannot squeeze water out a stone and if the developing countries do not have the resources, you cannot get money out of them except at an extraordinary cost. I am also hoping that SDRs which is about $650 billion of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) will be absolutely crucial in providing the resource that will give the African countries the fiscal space to do a little bit to revive their economies. I do not think this money should be used to repay the debts, but I think the debt needs to be restructured,” he said. He advised that the SDR should be used for advancing the growth of the economy, addressing climate change and other long-term issues that Africa faces.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .