5 Things Women Find Attractive In Men Image Pinterest A bit of gossip for the men; there are some little things women find attractive in you and for some reason, many men do not understand why. Romantic attraction is a complicated thing that scientists still don’t completely understand. However, through research and experimentation, they have come up with many ideas about what draws one person to another. Often, the things men focus on might not cut it for so many women. Below are some things women find attractive in men: Older Men
A 2010 study of 3,770 heterosexual adults suggested that women often prefer older men. As the women became more financially independent, they said they liked older guys even more. Also, they tend to have more resources, enabling them to be established both professionally and financially, plus, less drama. Beards
Some women still love it cleanly shaved, however, most women love the beards. Something to hold and touch while laying on his chest. According to Barnaby J. Dixson and Robert C. Brooks: Facial hair correlates not only with maturity and masculinity but also with dominance and aggression. Kindness and Selflessness
If you’re looking for a long-term relationship, research has shown rather unsurprisingly that women are attracted to a man who is generous and selfless over someone who is vain. The thought that someone somewhere will go all out and have their back anytime keeps women in a relationship. Women find men who go all out and are genuinely kind very attractive. A good first impression is vital
Be aware, and think before you speak. Once a half-thought comment is out of your mouth, it’s out, and irreversible damage could be done. In a date-based scenario, experiments have shown that women are more attractive to men who are non-judgemental, observant, and respectful. When you make judgemental remarks or spiteful remarks on the first date, well, the chance that they would even pick your call after is very slim. Laughter
In most cases, women are more attracted to men who can make them laugh. Funny men are sexier than bland ones. Seen as a sign of intelligence, a good sense of humour is instrumental in getting a woman interested in you. Don’t be too serious, make her laugh and see how drawn she would be to you.