 [FILES] Former Nigerian Head of State, Yakubu Gowon. (Photo by Kola SULAIMON / AFP) (Photo by KOLA SULAIMON/AFP via Getty Images)<br />  For instance, Great Britain, a Union of England, Scotland and Wales is a True Federation, just as Canada and European Union, are True Federations of (1) English Speaking Americans and French Speaking Americans following American War of Independence from Europe and (2) European Union which is a Federation of European Nations following the end of the second World War which was the consequence of their individual effort to control their respective Colonial Territories. In each of these Federations there is an Exit Clause which allows any of the Federating Unit to opt out of the Federation. Nigeria is a forced Amalgamation of the ethnic Nationalities or Nations such as Hausa- Fulani, Yoruba, Igbo, Kanuri, Ibibio, Tiv, Edo, Nupe, Ijaw among others which broke up following Military Intervention in Politics in 1966, and which led to the breakaway of Igbo ethnic Nationality from the skewed Federation or Amalgamated Nigeria. There should have been no problem if there is an Exit Clause. See Brexit. From the above, it is clear to me that the Sovereign State of Biafra of 1967-1970, is an attempt to opt out of skewed or not True and Sustainable Nigerian Federation. It is therefore not well thought out for the other ethnic Nationalities or Nations of Amalgamated Nigeria to have gone into a Battle with Col Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, who set up the State of Biafra for Ndigbo Nation, which collapsed on January 10, 1970 due to the overwhelming Military Might of the Federal (Central) Government of Nigeria. It is therefore very wise and just, for General Yakubu Gowon, the Head of Nigeria’s skewed Federation to proclaim that there is *no Victor, no Vanquished, and a Call For Reconciliation, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Nigeria.    What General Gowon was really calling for, is for a True and Sustainable Federation so that Nigeria will heal the Wounds of the Civil War, and have Peace and make Economic Progress as one Nation. It is the inability of the ethnic Nationalities to implement General Gowon’s Proclamation of January 10, 1970 that has left Nigeria in our present Unity, Peace and Economic Mess as a Nation and the vociferous hate ridden Call for a True and Sustainable Federation, so that Nigeria will have Peace and make Economic Progress commensurate with Nigeria’s enormous Resources (human and material) Endowment. How do we go about this Restructuring Business in Peace and Cordiality? Below are my well thought out Suggestions.
Now we have to recognize and appreciate that Nigeria is a Federation of the ethnic Nationalities or Nations comprised in Nigeria, namely Hausa-Fulani, Yoruba, Igbo, Kanuri, Ibibio, Tiv, Edo , Nupe, Ijaw among others who should come together and agree on the Terms of their Union no less no more. There must however be an Exit Clause for any Federating Unit to opt out of Nigerian Federation. See Brexit. I believe Restructuring is strictly a Matter for the National Assembly / the 36 States Assemblies, as true Representatives of Nigeria’s constituent ethnic Nationalities to address the Matter, using the Stipulations of Amendment Clause in our Existing Constitution to give Nigeria, a True and Sustainable Federation with well worked out Mutually and freely Agreed Terms of Union including an Exit Clause for any Federating Unit which may in future want to leave Nigerian Federation and to do so in peace and cordiality, See Brexit, so that Nigeria as a Nation State of many ethnic Nationalities or Nations can have Peace and make real Economic Progress as one Nation. The above, in my View, is *the Answer for Nigeria Afterall*, apologies to The Guardian Editorial Series which Nigeria Leaders in Politics and in Government should read and embrace.
Oragwu, FSAN is a former academic in Physics at University of Nigeria (UNN).
in 1960s before the Nigeria -Biafra Civil War, 1967-1970, He is resident in Lagos, Telephone 08035767856.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .