 President Muhammadu Buhari (middle); Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo (left); Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru; Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor and Chief of Air Staff, Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao after the decoration of new service chiefs at the Presidential Villa, Abuja…yesterday										PHOTO: NAN  The President, who spoke yesterday at a ceremony to decorate the new service chiefs with their ranks at the State House, Abuja, told them to see their appointments, clearance and decoration as a vote of confidence on them. Buhari said: “You have got a few weeks to do that because by the rainy season, we expect people to develop confidence and go back to the land, so that we don’t get into trouble by being away from the field and therefore unable to produce enough food for the nation. “During our four-hour security meeting on Tuesday, I had taken the responsibility as Commander-in-Chief for you to go out into the field and secure the country. “For those (of you) that have been confirmed by this ceremony, the decoration, in front of your spouses, is a further confidence loudly expressed on you on behalf of the nation, to respond to the insecurity the country is in, and the nation looks up to you for rapid relief.” He gave them the assurance of his firm support, adding: “I have accepted responsibility for your actions in the field; it’s up to you to identify your competent officers irrespective of seniority and paper qualification and deploy them to make sure that we secure this country. “We all look forward to you to perform and I, as the Commander-in- Chief, I am backing you hundred per cent, and I expect you to effectively deploy your officers and men to secure the country.” Responding on behalf of the other service chiefs, the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor, told the President that they would not fail in their responsibilities, noting that the mandate was clear. “Nigeria will have peace again. Based on the mandate, we will address all issues, working with all other security organisations,” he said. Others decorated were Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru as Chief of Army Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo as Chief of Naval Staff and Air Marshal Isiaka Amao as Chief of Air Staff. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .