 Stephen Odey  But for over a year, the entire process has been enmeshed in controversy. First, there were disagreements over the list of delegates arising from the Ward and Chapter congresses of March 7 and 21 meant for usage in the September 5, 2020 Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primary elections. The PDP National Working Committee (NWC) confirmed the list, which was endorsed by the National Organising Secretary of the PDP, Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd) on April 26, 2020. Some members of the NWC of the PDP were divided on this and made efforts to smuggle in another list, dated April 27, 2020. But the efforts failed.  Now, Jarigbe has also secured a Supreme Court judgment on February 25, 2021, which struck out the appeals by Odey and others, and sustained the Appeal Court judgment. While Jarigbe awaits swearing-in by the Senate, there have been arguments and counter arguments on the outcome of the February 25 Supreme Court judgment.
 
Jarigbe defeated Odey at the High, Appeal and Supreme Courts but Odey and his supporters have insisted that he remains the Senator even with INEC having withdrawn his certificate of return and given same to Jarigbe.
 
It is also alleged that the Senate has refused to swear in Jarigbe on the grounds that the Supreme Court judgment was not declarative.
 
The alleged argument is that, “Jarigbe and his legal team cannot enforce the High Court and Appeal Court judgments because you cannot enforce a court judgment against a person who is not a party to the case. He has to enforce his judgment against Chief Alaja.”
 
A group, Centre for Credible Leadership & Citizens Awareness, in a recent report, commended the leadership of the Senate for standing for justice by not swearing in Jarigbe.
 
The Director General of the Centre, Dr. Nwambu Gabriel said, “as an organisation whose core values centre on good governance, our observation on the February 25, 2021 judgment of the Supreme Court on the case between Senator Dr. Odey, a serving Senator representing Cross River North Senatorial District and Hon. Jarigbe Agom Jarigbe, is that the apex Court did not rule on the substantive appeal of the matter. Instead, it ruled on preliminary objection about improper service by substituted means, whereas, the same Supreme Court granted an order that the parties be served via substituted means and all the parties were in court. The Supreme Court did not nullify the certificate of return of the serving Senator, Dr. Odey, neither was the seat declared vacant.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .