Team Qhubeka ASSOS (TeamQhubeka.com) will be taking on Gent-Wevelgem, the Belgian UCI World Tour classic, this Sunday. It will be the 83rd edition of the event, covering 254km across the famous fields in West Flanders.  Gent-Wevelgem, traditionally seen as a classic for the sprinters despite a tougher parcour in recent editions, will see the European and Italian champion, Giacomo Nizzolo return to action for Team Qhubeka ASSOS. After placing 4th at Wednesday's Oxyclean Classic Brugge-De Panne, Nizzolo sat out the E3 Saxo Bank Classic, readying himself for Sunday's challenge. Max Walscheid & Lukas Wisniowski, who also featured prominently on Wednesday, also return into the fold for Sunday's race. Dimitri Claeys, Michael Gogl, Emil Vinjebo and Andreas Stokbro will complete our lineup for Gent-Wevelgem. Thank you to JB Lagnie for providing a unique video announcement (https://bit.ly/2Pz8IZw) of our Gent-Wevelgem team. Max Walscheid The team and I are really looking forward to Gent-Wevelgem, which will basically start from kilometer zero with crosswinds expected from even before the Kemmelberg. We then have some very hard loops through the hills before we go again on the flat, where it will probably be windy, to Gent. We have the European champion, Giacomo Nizzolo, as our leader for the race and we will look to support him as best as possible. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka ASSOS. Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About Team Qhubeka ASSOS:
Team Qhubeka ASSOS is a purpose-led, high-performance team, fighting to win on the world's biggest stage, to inspire hope and create opportunity. Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka ASSOS (formerly NTT Pro Cycling) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in six Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. There are 19 nationalities represented across our World Tour and continental feeder team rosters. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage, since the team's inception. We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 30 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .