5 Foods That Help Reduce Period Cramps Period pain can be draining and the fact that it comes in different forms is even more frustrating. Most women experience some menstrual pain. For up to 15 percent, it is severe enough to interfere with work and other activities for one or more days every month. Sometimes the pain diminishes after childbirth, but for many women, it continues. There are some home remedies that can ease the pains of menstrual pain and below are some: Water
If you’re feeling bloated, you might not think that a big glass of H2O is the way to go. It might seem counter-intuitive, but chugging some water actually prevents your body from retaining water, according to Healthline. If you’re not a fan of drinking your water by itself, try eating some of the leafy greens, they contain plenty of water in a form you might find tastier. Also, warm or hot liquids can help soothe your cramps, so drinking your water in the form of the hot chamomile tea that’s also on this list is a solid option. Bananas, Kiwi and Pineapple
Bananas contain vitamin B6 and a healthy dose of potassium, which can help relieve your bloating and cramping symptoms. You can make smoothies and add in some chunks of fresh pineapple as well. Besides being delicious, pineapples contain bromelain, an enzyme that fights inflammation. A little kiwi can make your fruit bowl a triple threat when it comes to beating back those cramps. Rich in the enzyme actinidin, kiwis can help you digest protein more easily. Oats
Oats are delicious and nutritious, whether you enjoy them as oatmeal, in cookie form, or in a healthy batch of homemade granola. Not only are they full of fiber, which helps you feel full for longer after eating, but they are also a good source of zinc and magnesium. Magnesium relaxes blood vessels and helps regulate serotonin, a chemical in your brain that helps fight off depression. Eggs
Eggs contain vitamins B6, D, and E, which all work together to fight off the symptoms of PMS according to Healthline. They’re also packed with protein, which is an added nutritional bonus. Ginger
Ginger is a stomach soother when you’re feeling nauseous. But it’s also good for gas and bloating, according to dieticians. However, if the pain is unbearable, you might see your doctor.