Ogbuagu The Imo State House of Assembly has removed the member representing Ikeduru State Constituency in the House, Uche Ogbuagu, as the Majority Leader. Kanayo Onyemaechi, who represents Owerri West Constituency, takes over with immediate effect. The Speaker, Paul Emeziem, announced the new development during the plenary, yesterday. According to him, the removal of Ogbuagu was part of the resolutions reached at the end of the meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus in the House. He furthered disclosed that the APC caucus also passed a vote of ‘explicit’ confidence on the state governor, Hope Uzodimma, based on his leadership sagacity and “laudable achievements.” “After the meeting of the Imo State lawmakers of APC extraction, that is APC caucus, and after exhausting the agenda of the meeting, the following decisions were reached. “One, the caucus declared their unalloyed support for Hope Uzodimma, the governor of Imo State, for showing capacity and sagacity in the leadership of APC and the state at large. “Two, to notify the House of the new changes in the leadership of the caucus of the party in the Imo State House of Assembly. “Uche Ogbuagu, member representing Ikeduru Constituency, is now the former Majority Leader and Kanayo Onyemaechi, representing Owerri West Constituency, is now the current Majority Leader of APC caucus in the Imo State House of Assembly,” the Speaker said. Meanwhile, The Guardian gathered from one of the lawmakers who pleaded anonymity that Ogbuagu’s removal was not unconnected with his alleged plan to leave APC for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The lawmaker said the decision was to save the caucus, as well as the party, from the embarrassment of losing its majority leader to an opposition party when he finally announces his decision. “We have it on good note that Uche has been romancing with PDP with the intention to rejoining the party soon. He has already written his resignation letter to this effect before this decision was taken. “So, we thought it wise not to wait until he tenders the letter because if we allow it, it will be a huge embarrassment to us and the party (APC) generally,” the source said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .