The Super Eagles are expected to have a full complement of invited players when they begin their first full training session today. The team is currently camped at Eko Hotels, where the first set of players has been working out at the gymnasium. The first players to arrive at the hotel are England-based William Troost-Ekong, Semi Ajayi, Ola Aina, and Skipper Ahmed Musa. Yesterday morning, Turkey-based Francis Onyekuru and Oghenekaro Etebo joined their mates, while Alex Iwobi, Victor Osimhen, Tyrone Ebuehi, Maduka Okoye, Jamiu Collins, Leon Balogun, Joe Aribo, Paul Onuachu, Shehu Abdullahi, and Chigozie Awaziem joined the team later in the evening. The home-based trio of John Noble, Anayo Iwuala, and Adekunle Adeleke also joined the team yesterday. Noble and Iwuala were in Enyimba’s team that faced Sunshine Stars of Akure in a Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) game yesterday at the Agege Stadium yesterday. According to Super Eagles Media Officer, Femi Raji, the early arrivals had a light training session by 10.00 a.m. yesterday before joining the rest of the contingent for lunch. Raji disclosed that 90 per cent of the invited players are expected to participate in today’s morning and evening training sessions at the Teslim Balogun Stadium. Meanwhile, several of Squirrels’ France-based stars, who were previously in danger of missing the qualifier against the Super Eagles, have landed in Cotonou with officials disclosing the country’s final squad for Saturday’s clash would be made public later yesterday. Voice of Nigeria reports that the French government relaxed travel restrictions concerning players in Ligues 1 and 2 and this has allowed Benin to use their best players for the AFCON qualifiers against Nigeria and Sierra Leone. “The players mostly from France arrived last night and many more are expected later today,” an official informed SCORENigeria. “As a result, a final squad for the matches against Nigeria and Sierra Leone will now be announced later today.” Benin was due to announce a final squad last Thursday, but that announcement was put off because coach Michel Dussuyer was unsure of the availability of the bulk of his call-ups, the majority of who play their football in France. Benin will qualify for the AFCON in Cameroun with a win over the Super Eagles on Saturday in Porto-Novo. They lost the reverse tie 2-1 in Nigeria two years ago. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .