 Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. PHOTO: Twitter/Nigeriagov<br />  In recognition of the strategic importance of the entertainment and creative sector in growing the Nigerian economy, the (Muhammadu) Buhari administration has, in the past few years, introduced several initiatives to harness the abundant potentials in the country, according to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. He made the disclosure at the weekend in a message delivered at the opening of the Ogidi Studios – a Lagos-based world-class creative complex – hosting recording, film production, animation and writing studios, owned by the Temple Company. The Vice President said: “Last year, the Federal Government handed over the control of the National Theatre to the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Bankers’ Committee. The Bankers’ Committee has committed to an investment of N25 billion as initial funding for the development of the Nigeria Creative Centre at the National Theatre, Lagos.  Celebrating Burnaboy and Wizkid on their Grammy Awards, he stated that the environment had been prepared for Nigeria to produce more creative talents. SIMILARLY, the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development is to partner Ogidi Studios for the training of 1000 youths in the music production segment value chain of the creative industry. The minister, Sunday Dare, stated this at the commissioning of the facility in Lagos at the weekend, noting that it was part of the ministry’s commitment to equipping the youth with skills that can set them up as entrepreneurs and contributors to Nigeria’s economic growth. He explained that the launch of the studios “resonates with our youth because it excites and employs our youth.” The minister added: “I see that the future of some of our youth would be built here. The most important task for me is to announce a partnership between the Federal Government through the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development. We would support and train 1000 Nigerian youths in two to four weeks’ courses. “We want to make sure that every month a hundred of them come here, we will pay full expenses, they can get certified and they can become entrepreneurs, creators of wealth, employees of labour and also contribute to national economic development. We are committed to that on the part of the Federal Government. “I know that other segments and levels of government with connections to an infrastructure like this will seek to partner with you, basically for the sake of the youth of this country,” the Minister noted. The partnership covers courses in Graphic design, 2D Animation, Video editing Pro, Sound production, Cinematography, Art Direction, Film making 101 and Creative Writing. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .