Police deny arrest of OPC members, say warlord in hospital
A joint team of Ibarapa security operatives, including the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), members of vigilance group and other groups, yesterday, arrested the notorious warlord terrorising  Ibarapa Zone of Oyo State, Iskilu Wakili. The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams, who disclosed this to The Guardian, lauded the joint efforts of all the security operatives in Ibarapa on the arrest of Wakili. The Guardian gathered that the joint team of Ibarapa security  operatives, arrested Wakili and three others after several attempts culminating in a gun fire exchange. Adams, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Aderemi, hailed the joint security team, saying the efforts paid off, coming at a time when Wakilu and his gang had made life unbearable to the people of Ibarapa and its environs in Oyo State. “I am happy that the notorious kidnapper has been captured alongside three others. It is a good development and a positive signal to other criminal elements that the South-West is no longer an abode for bandits, kidnappers and criminal herders”. MEANWHILE, Oyo State Police Command has confirmed the arrest. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Olugbenga Fadeyi, in a message sent to The Guardian when an inquiry was made on the development, said: “Yes.” He denied that four members of the joint security team that arrested Wakili had been detained. Also, the police command said that Wakili was in hospital receiving treatment. IN the meantime, natives and residents of Igangan in Ibarapa North Local Council of Oyo State have expressed joy over the arrest of Wakili. In a statement made available to The Guardian by the convener,  Igangan Development Advocates (IDA), Oladiran Oladokun, the residents congratulated men of the OPC for the valiance displayed in their latest intervention in confronting the incessant episodes of insecurity in Ibarapa area of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .