 Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria  The Institute is looking beyond Nigeria’s market, hoping to leverage the vibrancy of the country’s banking sector, to launch into African and global space. Speaking at the virtual event, which had over 300 stakeholders in diverse sectors in attendance, the President/Chairman of Council, CIBN, Bayo Olugbemi, said the unveiling was a milestone in the institute’s drive to deepen knowledge and skills; implement the competency framework as well as serve as a global reference point for professionalism and ethics in the banking and finance. He said the new syllabus would help to nurture a strong pipeline of talents and deepen skills in the workplace to support the continued transformation of the industry to stay viable and achieve competitive growth. Olugbemi added that the syllabus identifies global trends in banking as well as the requirements current and emerging skill gaps. He said the training would equip existing and potential members of the Institute with the required skills and competencies they need to succeed in their careers. Oluggemi explained that the syllabus is a product of painstaking efforts involving the inputs and technical reviews of distinguished scholars, eminent bankers, employers of labour and others. He further said the syllabus comprises four modules in each of the three levels of knowledge areas while incorporating new areas such as public sector finance, sustainable banking and digital banking as well as expanding titles of the existing areas to reflect the current trends. Chairman, Capacity Building and Certification Committee, CIBN, Rotimi Omotoso, said the syllabus represents the spirit of innovation in the practice of banking and finance, especially with its diverse uniqueness. He said the syllabus provides for emerging future trends and covers all issues related to the banking industry.
Omotoso said the syllabus, which has been endorsed by both local and international stakeholders in banking would address loopholes in the systems as well as enhance the competence and skills of students and professionals. “Those aspiring for a career in banking and those in the pipeline should take advantage of the syllabus. It is judged to be fit for the training of future bankers,” he said. Deputy Governor, Corporate Services Directorate, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Edward Adamu, commended the CIBN for the syllabus, saying it offers a unique and fresh approach to the banking industry as it gives students, graduates and professionals the opportunity to cope with increasing skill demands. He added that the syllabus would also transform the banking landscape in Nigeria and Africa.Also speaking, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Unity Bank Plc, Oluwatomi Somefun, commended the modular approach, which accommodates the diploma, intermediate and chartered cadre, adding that “this is relevant to boost the knowledge of workers in the industry. She further added that the syllabus reflects the change professionals in the Nigerian banking sector have to go through in acquiring the right skills to succeed.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .