 Makinde. Photo: TWITTER/SEYIAMANKINDE  He made the comment as a former Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, Prof. Olusola Kolapo Eleka, urged Oyo State to establish a building control agency to ensure appropriate professionals man building production management. The duo spoke during celebration of Builders’ Day and investiture of new executive council members of the state chapter of Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB) at the Conference Centre, University of Ibadan. Governor Makinde, who was represented by the Commissioner for Public Works, Infrastructure and Transport, Prof. Kehinde Sangodoyin, said builders were involved in enormous facilities being built in the state. “We have the official Department of Building. Their function is to guide the government on all building projects in Oyo State. Let me assure the public that part of their mandate is to vet all building projects in Oyo State and review the bills of quantity of projects.” Eleka, who was a guest lecturer at the event,  said: “Today, we are talking about building collapsing. Lives are being lost. Today we are celebrating the second edition of Builders’ Day to remember what happened on March 13, 2019 when a building, which was converted to a school, collapsed and 21 pupils died and many people sustained injuries. “Right from there, the Lagos State government deemed it fit and relaunched Building Regulations Law that led to the establishment of Lagos State Building Control Agency. In that law, all contractors are mandated to employ a registered builder on their site to oversee the production process. “When you have shoddy job being done and building production not being manned by appropriate professionals, you will have defective work, which will eventually lead to collapse. That is why we are also imploring Oyo State government to take a cue from Lagos State government and Ogun State government and also put in place a mechanism that will lead to establishment of an Oyo State Building Control Agency. That could be done by enacting Oyo State Building Regulation Law.
I know that Governor Makinde encourages professionalism”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .