 [file] Former Governor of Lagos and Leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. AFP PHOTO / STEFAN HEUNIS  “Your towering accomplishments from the corporate world to being Senator of the Federal Republic, representing Lagos West, to being elected twice as governor and as the only governor standing during the 2003 tsunami, are testimonies of a political titan. “Like phoenix, you are not cowed as the undisputable vanguard of progressive politics, irrepressible statesman and an icon whose unconditional service and time-tested leadership inspire hope in us. We are very proud of you and would continue to cherish your heritage of responsible statesmanship. You have nurtured a wide range of human endeavor. It amounts to statesmanship that your birthday is celebrated in Kano.” Governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, described Tinubu as answer to the litany of woes rocking the nation. He added that the national leader is an outstanding model to the emerging leaders of Nigeria and a lesson in patriotism, tenacity, service and resilience. Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, hailed Jagaban for his leadership qualities, describing him as not only an accomplished politician and a well-respected elder statesman, but also a strong voice in the fight against military dictatorship and the enthronement of democracy. “I recall vividly your determination and contributions, working with many others, in putting our party together during those early days of party formation and the many challenges that comes with putting a political party together.” In a statement, Speaker Lagos State Assembly, Muhashiru Obasa described Tinubu as one of the blessings God has endowed Nigeria. Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya, also felicitated with the APC national leader, describing him as a true democrat and large-hearted politician who sacrificed a lot for Nigeria. He said with his pedigree and track records of mentorship, guidance and support for upcoming leaders to accomplish their dreams, “Tinubu has written his name in gold in the annals of history and earned for himself, national and global accolades and respect.” Governor Yahaya, who said the APC leader personifies courage in leadership and patriotism, saluted his abiding faith in ideals of democracy and the Nigerian project. He also showered encomiums on the former Lagos governor for his bridge-building and humanitarian disposition, dogged commitment to the success of APC and President Buhari’s administration as well as the unity and invisibility of the country. He described him as a “legendary and inspiring leader with relentless commitment and love for the nation and democracy,” Adding that with his pedigree and track records of mentorship, guidance and support for upcoming leaders to accomplish their dreams, “Tinubu has written his name in gold in the annals of history and earned for himself, national and global accolades and respect.” Governor Yahaya, who said the APC leader personifies courage in leadership and patriotism, saluted his abiding faith in ideals of democracy and the Nigerian project.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .