Chairman, First Bank Nigeria Limited, Ibukun Awosika Corporate organisations and financial institutions have been urged to create a conducive environment that would enable women to work and contribute actively to the overall growth of their establishment with multiplier effect on the economy. The Chairman of First Bank of Nigeria (FBN), Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, while speaking at a webinar organised by the United Nations (UN) and Women in Successful Careers (WISCAR), in commemoration of International Women’s Month (IWM) 2021, said there was need for managers to establish a well structured business ecosystem that would enable women participate in decision making process of their organisations. She mentioned that there was need for active involvement of women if Nigeria must rebuild the economy sustainably and make it more resilient post-COVID. Awosika described women as strong workforce and vehicle of change, while urging government at all levels to drive policies that would compel organisations to absorb more women in their various establishments. In addition, Awosika also stressed the need for policy makers to create opportunity for women in business to get the right funding and create more job opportunities for the nation. According to her, because women are highly affected by environmental problems, they must be empowered to enable them participate actively in various issues of national interest. “A number of studies have shown that sustainable development is impossible without women’s empowerment and gender equality. They must contribute maximally to the social development of the country. “Having women represented in our decision making process will help build a resilient organisation. We must find smart ways of keeping women at work. “As employers of labour, we must take corporate decisions that would enable women to have equal opportunities to effectively work and deliver the right kind of value for the organisation,” she said. The United Nations Country Representative, Ms. Comfort Lamptey, noted that progress has been made in the areas of women inclusion 25 years after Beijing conference. “The private sector has a critical role to play in gender equality in Nigeria. There is need to put more women in leadership roles in both the public and private sector,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .