Sadiq Daba as Inspector Waziri in the film “October 1” | Image: Twitter/@AbangMercy Nigerian actor and former broadcaster Sadiq Daba, who is best known for his role as “Inspector Waziri” in the film October 1, has died. Daba passed away on the evening of Wednesday, March 3, 2021, after a protracted battle with leukaemia and prostate cancer. In a report by PUNCH, Joe Odumakin, a close friend of the actor, disclosed that Daba’s wife confirmed the passing of the veteran actor. “His wife just called me now and we spoke,” Odumakin told PUNCH. “She said that she was at the morgue. I asked what happened and she told me that about a week ago, he had been ill but he had been home and that he went to the hospital late afternoon today. “She explained that he had not been eating much and that as soon as they got to the hospital, they started conducting different tests on him including COVID-19. They put him on oxygen but he died around 8:30 pm.” Daba, born Sadiq Abubakar Daba, revealed in 2017 that he had been diagnosed with Leukemia and Prostate Cancer. He was supported with fundraising by several Nigerians including the billionaire businessman, Femi Otedola. Daba worked with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) for over three decades until he retired. His acting career came to prominence in the late 1970s, starring in Cockcrow at Dawn. In 2015, Daba won the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actor for his role as Inspector Waziri in Kunle Afolayan’s psychological thriller “October 1”.   A post shared by Kunle Afolayan (@kunleafo)  Tributes from Nigerians have poured in for the late actor on social media: Former vice president Atiku Abubakar on Twitter page wrote: “Sad that the cock will no longer crow at dawn. Sadiq Daba, thank you for the joy you brought into our homes. May your sins be forgiven, and your memories be a blessing.” Publisher and businessman Dele Momodu: “My very dear Brother, you fought a gallant battle… Good night and rest in peace…” Journalist Abang Mercy: “Lucky to have worked with this Legend at Independent Television . He will insist the words are pronounced “RIGHT” even if it took the whole day…. A Legend, oh Sadiq Daba . When you see him, you’re reminded of Yinka Craig. An era on Television”