Sheila O Nigerian Afrobeats sensations, Rema and Omah Lay have topped this week’s Sheila O’s Afrozons Afrobeats US Weekly Top 10 Chart with their respective songs; ‘Bounce’ and ‘Godly’. Following closely behind them in third, fourth and fifth places are ‘Essence’ by Wizkid featuring Tems; ‘Ginger’ by Wizkid featuring Burna Boy and ‘Ke Star’ (Remix) by Focalistic featuring Davido. ‘Jowo’ by Davido and ‘Focus’ by Joeboy claim sixth and seventh spots. ‘Pronto’ by Ajebo Hustlers featuring Omah Lay; ‘Onyeka’ by Burna Boy and ‘Turn it Up’ by Chop Daily featuring Fyi Nya and Kiamo Biu complete the list at 8th, 9th and 10th respectively. AfroZons With Sheila O US Afrobeats weekly top 10 charts is the first to be launched in the United States of America and it is in partnership with Mixcloud. It is the first-ever Afrobeats show on a major US radio FM network. It is a weekly showcase of the latest cultural trends, topical conversations, and music from Africa, including urban fusion sounds from the Western world to the motherland. The first show aired February 5, 2018, and currently runs every Sunday from 10 PM to 12 midnight. The AfroZons show launched in February as part of the Black History Month celebrations for Power 92.3 Chicago. According to Sheila O, the results are derived by using algorithms and BDS Nielsen data for validity, “Afrozons determines the exposure to the US audience through spins on terrestrial radio in the US and digital streams from all digital sources in the US (Apple Music, Spotify, TIDAL and more),” she said. “Afrobeats has been a growing genre of music for a few years now, and the genre shows no signs of slowing down. In the US, specifically, it was a big deal to understand and track the growth and consumption of the genre. “The weekly tracking period will begin Friday (to accommodate new releases) to Thursday. The charts will come out every Monday. This tracking period also applies to compiling online streaming data, radio airplay, which, unlike sales figures and streaming, is readily available on a real-time basis,” she added. 