 Douye Diri  Nembe was the scene of a vicious shooting incident on November 13, 2019, when governor Diri, and his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) supporters visited to campaign for the November 16, 2019, governorship election, according to a statement issued to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Daniel Alabrah. A report by the judicial panel of inquiry, set up by the state government on the incident, revealed that scores of persons were reportedly missing and several others sustained serious injuries as a result of the attack. Diri, who was received by the Chiefs and their excited subjects, thanked the people for the warm reception despite the short notice of the visit. He said the ancient kingdom of Nembe should be the light and peace of Bayelsa. The governor urged Nembe leaders and people to ensure that the prevailing peace and reconciliation are sustained, stressing that development can only thrive in an atmosphere of peace and security. While commending the leaders for the steps taken so far, he implored them to do more, assuring that the government will support efforts to deepen the peace in the area. He said: “As the chairman of the council of chiefs noted, peace has returned to Nembe. Truly, love has returned, and for me there should not have been any other project more important than peace in Nembe. “Nembe should be the light of Bayelsa. It should be the peace and love of Bayelsa. For us as a government, we are ready to work with the leaders of Nembe to ensure peace because it is only when there is peace that there can be development.” Earlier, the chairman of the Council of Chiefs, Chief Oriango Oruwari, thanked the governor for the visit and appreciated him for the role he played to ensure that peace returned to the community. Oruwari also expressed appreciation to the governor for appointing sons and daughters of Nembe into positions of trust and appealed to him to do more for Nembe.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .