 Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB)  According to the board, the decision was collectively taken at a virtual meeting held with heads of tertiary institutions in the country. The announcement was contained in a statement made available to journalists yesterday. JAMB Registrar, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, said the meeting with the institutions was aimed at knowing the level they had reached on the 2020/21 admissions scale. “After a robust and insightful deliberation, members collectively agreed that all public universities are expected to finish their admissions on or before 15th May 2021, while the private universities and all IEIs, polytechnics and colleges of education would complete theirs at the agreed date of 15th June 2021,” the statement said. Oloyede reiterated that the chosen deadlines remained sacrosanct and binding on all institutions as the board would not tolerate any breach of the collective decision reached the meeting. He said the board would announce, in a week’s time, the commencement date for the sale of application documents for the 2021/2022 academic session. The registrar urged all institutions to adhere strictly to all advisories issued to them on inter/intra-university transfers, foreign inter-university transfers and fresh foreign candidates, change of programmes and institutions and other essential processes related to admission. He said the directive was necessary to avoid unnecessary bickering that could endanger the future of innocent candidates and their subsequent mobilisation for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). Oloyede explained that the transfer of candidates within institutions locally or internationally is an acceptable process as approved by the senate or council of the respective institutions but said that due process must be followed. According to him, the board, as a responsible organisation and gatekeeper, would not allow the process to be circumvented to allow unqualified candidates gain access to our institutions. “JAMB would not be a party to any improper transfer or breach of set guidelines. Adequate measures or checks must be done to verify if such candidates meet minimum requirements or possess the prerequisite qualifications to be in the institution in the first instance.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .