Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Concerned People of Owan Local Government (CPOLG), yesterday, condemned Governor Godwin Obaseki over the demolition of property belonging to indigenes of the state. They specifically faulted the demolition of property of former Deputy Governor Pius Odubu, representative of Owan Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Prof. Julius Ihonvbere and that of Mike Itemuagbon in the Government Reservation Area (GRA), Benin City. The groups recalled that Governor Obaseki had demolished the private property of an APC chieftain, Tony Kabaka Adun about this time last year, lamenting that the action of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led government was unfortunate. In a statement issued by the state APC spokesman, Chris Azebamwan, the party said the action was aimed at intimidating, suppressing, hounding, crushing and silencing his (Obaseki’s) perceived enemies. “It is shameful and sad that Godwin Obaseki has abandoned his constitutional responsibilities to chase opposition members in the state by destroying their property. “No doubt, the action is part of the governor’s ‘Make Edo State Great Again (MEGA)’ agenda to regularly and willfully demolish property belonging to perceived opponents and dissenting voices in the bid to foist a siege mentality on the people. “It is on record that Governor Obaseki had earlier this year revoked the Certificates of Occupancy (C of O) of the property, but demolishing the structures while the case is still in court, is unacceptable because it amounts to subversion of the rule of law,” the statement reads.
Also in a statement issued by Spokesman of CPOLG, Comrade Ohis Ahmed, the group described the demolition as political vendetta, saying Ihonvbere’s property has a genuine ‘C of O’ and a building plan issued by the Obaseki government. “Obaseki, in a revenge mission against opposition has carried out his earlier threat to demolish property belonging to APC chieftains in the state. This inhuman act, is taking place at a time when Edo State is facing unprecedented insecurity, kidnapping, banditry and cultism, which clearly shows that the governor has left governance for politics of bitterness and witch-hunting. “It is shameful and sad that Obaseki has no regard for the judiciary, neglecting the fact that the cases of the demolished property are before the court,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .