Whenever you’re ready to travel again, Jumeirah Hotels & Resorts (www.Jumeirah.com) is here to help plan the perfect escape.  Whether craving poolside relaxation at one of its extraordinary beachside hotels or looking to enjoy an urban escape in a chic city destination, Jumeirah has launched a special global promotion for discerning travellers looking to channel their wanderlust and create new memories once travel opens up again. Through Jumeirah Escapes, anyone who books before 31st March 2021 for stays until 18th December 2021 can save up to 20% when staying for three nights or more, along with exclusive privileges and further discounts on wellness and dining. Eligible across its UAE portfolio as well as the Jumeirah Port Soller Hotel & Spa in Mallorca, guests are invited to experience Jumeirah’s renowned hospitality and exceptional service; from a sun-soaked Mediterranean escape at its stunning clifftop retreat, to an eco-friendly wellness stay at Jumeirah at Saadiyat Island Resort in Abu Dhabi, or a family friendly holiday at Jumeirah Beach Hotel in Dubai. Guests can be assured that all Jumeirah hotels are implementing the highest safety and hygiene standards to ensure that guests are in safe hands. 12 Jumeirah hotels have been awarded the Bureau Veritas’ Safeguard label, with Jumeirah Al Naseem being the first hotel in the world to receive the prestigious certification. Bureau Veritas, a world leader in testing, inspection, and certification services, has developed detailed checklists with global health, safety, and hygiene specialists to ensure that procedures are in place, to allow for the resumption of operations, meeting local and international regulations, as well as globally recognised best practices. Jumeirah Hotels and Resorts understands that flexibility is key when faced with changing travel restrictions during these uncertain times. With the Jumeirah Escapes promotion, guests at the participating hotels are given the option to change or cancel their reservation free of charge, up to 24 hours prior to arrival if the reason is due to COVID-19 restrictions. These include a positive PCR test, cancelled flights or travel ban. Amendments will be based on the room rate and availability on the new date requested. Confirmation of flight cancellation and positive PCR test will need to be provided. The Jumeirah Escapes offer includes the following: For more information on Jumeirah Escapes or to plan your next holiday and save on your stay, please visit Jumeirah.com/Escapes. PCR tests are available at all Dubai properties for guests and are bookable in advance, at additional cost. When staying at Jumeirah Beach Hotel for more than five nights, guests can receive a complimentary PCR test on-property. Images can be found in this link (https://bit.ly/3ccYVQE) Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Jumeirah Group. For more information, please contact: 
Sharifa Al Maawali
Cluster PR & Communications Manager
sharifa.almaawali@jumeirah.com For more inspiration, stay connected via our social media channels and don’t forget to tag us in your posts #LiveTheMoment
Instagram: @jumeirahgroup About Jumeirah Group:
Jumeirah Group (www.Jumeirah.com), a member of Dubai Holding and a global luxury hotel company, operates a world-class 6,500+-key portfolio of 25 properties across the Middle East (including the flagship Burj Al Arab Jumeirah) Europe and Asia, with more properties currently under construction around the globe. The health and safety of guests and colleagues is Jumeirah Group’s utmost priority. It has implemented a series of protective measures across all of its hotels, while strictly adhering to each market’s respective Government directives. Demonstrating Jumeirah’s commitment to operating its hotels to the highest global standards, 12 of its hotels were recently awarded the Bureau Veritas Safeguard Label, with Jumeirah Al Naseem being the first hotel in the world to receive the prestigious certification. The Group is working closely with Bureau Veritas to certify its wider portfolio. www.Jumeirah.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .