Eberechi Eze of Crystal Palace runs with the ball during a Premier League match against Manchester United at Old Trafford . Photo by AFP English Premier League side Crystal Palace look set to lose one of the breakout stars of the on-going campaign in the summer transfer window as AC Milan, according to reports, have set their sights on Eberechi Eze. Eze, who has adapted to life in the English top-flight since his switch from Championship side Queens Park Rangers, has been one of the standout stars of the Eagles’ Premier League campaign. The midfielder, who is still eligible to play for Nigeria despite having already been capped at youth level by England, has made 27 league appearances for Palace (starting 22 times) and scored thrice, including a goal of the season contender at the start of 2021 against Sheffield United. That performance against the Blades, and a number of other very consistent displays for Crystal Palace, has caught the attention of Milan’s technical director Paolo Maldini, who, according to Fichajes.com, has placed the 22-year-old attacking midfielder on his summer shopping list as the former European champions look to build on what has been a very productive campaign. According to the transfer market experts at Fichajes, the AC Milan legend and his scouting team view Eze as a great buy for the immediate and foreseeable future who could cost the Rossoneri way more than the £19.5 million the Eagles paid to secure his services from QPR. Eze isn’t the only Crystal Palace player on Maldini’s radar as the former Italy defender also has Wilfred Zaha and Serbian midfielder Luka Milivojevic on his sights. Ivory Coast international Zaha, 28, is currently valued at €50 million while Milivojevic, a 29-year-old Serbian midfielder, is valued at €12 million. Any deal will however depend on whether Crystal Palace manager Roy Hodgson – a former Inter Milan Head Coach – would be prepared to lose any of his star players to Milan or any other club for that matter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .