Dwayne Johnson Reveals ‘Black Adam’ 2022 Release Date Dwayne Johnson, who is starring as Black Adam in the film ‘Black Adam’ has shared on his Instagram Sunday that the DC superhero film will be released on July 29, 2022. In the post, he wrote: A disruptive and unstoppable force of a message from the man in black himself. The hierarchy of power in the DC Universe is about to change.   A post shared by therock (@therock)  The short spot with the release date was also aired during Sunday’s NCAA game. The news comes after it was recently announced that Pierce Brosnan has nabbed the role of classic hero Dr. Fate. Rounding out the cast are Aldis Hodge as Hawkman, Noah Centineo as Atom Smasher, and Quintessa Swindell as Cyclone. Black Adam marks the second New Line/DC film following 2019’s hit Shazam!, with the two characters, Shazam and Black Adam, known as archrivals in the DC Universe. Production on the film is slated to begin in April in Atlanta. Jaume Collet-Serra, who also directed Johnson opposite Emily Blunt in Disney’s upcoming Jungle Cruise, is directing Black Adam. Revealing the project in 2019, Johnson said the role of Black Adam was “unlike any other I’ve ever played in my career.” In an Instagram post, he wrote: As a kid, Superman was the hero I always wanted to be. But, a few years into my fantasy, I realized that Superman was the hero, I could never be. I was too rebellious. Too rambunctious. Too resistant to convention and authority. Johnson, Dany Garcia, and Hiram Garcia of Seven Bucks Productions are producing with Beau Flynn of FlynnPictureCo. FlynnPictureCo’s Scott Sheldon is serving as executive producer. Rory Haines and Sohrab Noshirvani wrote the latest draft, with Adam Sztykiel writing the previous draft. “Black Adam” was previously slated for December of this year but was taken off the Warner Bros. release schedule back in October 2020. Warner Bros., like CNN, is owned by WarnerMedia. The new release date means the antihero movie will arrive the same weekend as Disney’s fifth “Indiana Jones” film.