PHOTO: INVESTDATA Jang, Gyany urge pardon for Dariye, Nyamme
Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, has ruled out impeachment of President Muhammadu Buhari by the National Assembly over insecurity in the country, saying such action would not solve the problem. He made the comment during finals of the first Plateau North Peace, Unity and Reconciliation football tournament organised by Istifanus Gyang, representing Plateau North District in the Senate. Lawan, who was represented by Senator representing Benue North-East District, Gabriel Suswan, said: “Impeaching President Buhari is not the focus of the National Assembly as that may not solve the problem of insecurity in the country. But desperate action is needed by the commander-in-chief to allay the fears of Nigerians.” According to Suswan, any incident of insecurity that has persisted, like what the country is witnessing today, is failure of the executive, either at the state or national level. “What we are facing today requires desperate action by the executive but that is forthcoming.” He reminded Buhari that he is President for all, and should, therefore, act in the interest of Nigerians. “We in the National Assembly have continued to do our best. We have passed motions and resolutions, but most of them have not been respected. The president needs to put the interest of Nigeria above any other,” the former governor said. Suswan expressed backing for the bill to establish a special commission for armed forces, which recently divided the Senate. He, however, said that the bill, which seeks to take the power to appoint service chiefs, hire and retire them from the president, was not as crucial as deployment of troops to take out insurgents terrorising communities. At the tournament, a former governor of Plateau State, Senator Jonah Jang and Gyang appealed to President Buhari to grant executive pardon for former governor of the state, Joshua Dariye and his Taraba State counterpart, Jolly Nyame, who are in prison. Gyang said: “We from Plateau North are appealing to the president that in view of the recent judgment by Supreme Court that absorbed Dariye of criminal misappropriation, and on health grounds, he should be granted executive pardon.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .