A Dutch Foundation, Liliane Foundation, specialised in providing grants to NGOs to support children with disabilities has appointed the Leprosy Mission Nigeria as its new Strategic Partner Organization (SPO) in Nigeria. The aim of appointing TLMN as a strategic partner in Nigeria was to among others enable them to achieve their shared goal of empowering children and young persons with disabilities in societies. Leprosy Mission Nigeria is a leading Non-Governmental Development Organisation working to create a future where persons affected by leprosy and other disabilities are independent and empowered to take full responsibility for their lives. Reacting to the Development the Executive Secretary – National Commission for Persons with Disabilities, James David Lalu, stated, “I Congratulate TLMN for this groundbreaking achievement by securing this grant. “I am confident that TLMN will use this opportunity efficiently and effectively to benefit Persons with Disabilities in Nigeria.” According to Lalu, “TLMN is a household name in the disability community in Nigeria, and it has been touching lives for decades. We appreciate LF for this great support to Nigeria through TLMN.” “We at the National Commission for Persons with disabilities are proud to be associated with TLMN and reassured our maximum support and partnership in this project.” In the same vein, Mrs Nkechi Onukwe, Director of Special Needs, Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Social Development (FMHASD), congratulated TLMN for this appointment. She stated, “the Special Needs Department (formerly Rehabilitation Department) of the FMHASD has been a long-term partner of TLMN. “We appreciate the good work TLMN is doing, particularly in disability. Congratulations on the new appointment.” The National Director of TLMN, Dr Sunday Udo, expressed his delight with this strategic relationship with LF and reiterated TLMN’s commitment to transforming the lives of children and young persons with disabilities in Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .