Lil Nas X in Montero music video Rapper Lil Nas X has released his new single titled “Montero (Call Me By Your Name)” with an accompanying video replete with wild biblical and Greek mythology imagery. On “Montero (Call Me By Your Name),” Lil Nas X wants to stop pretending with his significant other and act on a first-name basis. The song’s title references Lil Nas X’s real name, Montero Lamar Hill. Minutes after its release, Nas X tweeted out the following letter to his 14-year old self: “Dear 14 year old montero, I wrote a song with our name in it. it’s about a guy I met last summer. I know we promised to never come out publicly, I know we promised never to be “that” type of gay person, I know we promised to die with the secret, but this will open doors for many other queer people to simply exist. “You see this is very scary for me, people will be angry, they will say I’m pushing an agenda. but the truth is, I am. the agenda to make people stay the fuck out of other people’s lives and stop dictating who they should be. sending you love from the future.”  Lil Nas first teased the song on Twitter on July 9th, 2020. In November of the same year, Nas X stated that “Call Me By Your Name” would be the next song he releases, announced via Instagram Live. On February 2nd, 2021, a Super Bowl ad for Logitech starring Nas X was released, using the song. Lil Nas X rose to prominence with the release of his country rap single “Old Town Road”, which first achieved viral popularity on the social media app TikTok in early 2019 before climbing music charts internationally and becoming diamond certified by November of that same year. “Old Town Road” spent nineteen weeks atop the US Billboard Hot 100 chart, becoming the longest-running number-one song since the chart debuted in 1958. Several remixes of the song were released, the most popular of which featured country singer Billy Ray Cyrus. Nas X came out as gay while “Old Town Road” was atop the Hot 100, becoming the only artist to do so while having a number-one record.