Super Eagles’ best player in this evening’s African Cup of Nations qualifier against the Crocodiles of Lesotho will be bestowed with the ‘Man of the Match’ award by “33” Export Lager as part of its ‘Operation 33’ campaign. Before their last outing on Saturday, the beverage manufacturing company charged the team to aim for a perfect finish in the qualifiers, and the Super Eagles rose up to the occasion; defeating the Squirrels of Benin Republic by a lone goal thereby ending their hosts’ eight-year unbeaten run at home just as Nigeria’s 497-day winless run since November 17, 2019 also came to an end. No doubt the urge from the official lager beer to the team was the psychological boost that ended the winless run for the team. On arrival back to the country on Sunday morning, the team was received by top echelon from the corporate world and high profile celebrities in the entertainment industry, a platform provided by “33” Export lager at Heineken Beach House, Ilashe, up-scale in Lagos. Speaking on the game, “33” Export Lager said its football campaign slogan “Let’s Go Naija” captures the brand’s full support for the Super Eagles and a reminder to the millions of football fans to come out and cheer Super Eagles to victory. It added: “In what will be the Super Eagles’ first official game in Lagos in 20 years, “33” Export will be giving the ‘Man of the Match’ award during the last qualifying match. “33” Export Lager, the official beer of the Super Eagles and known for nurturing friendships among Nigerians will also be giving free match tickets to lucky consumers to access the main to match live. “Loyal consumers will also be able to win quality prizes in the predict and win contest via the brand’s social media platforms (@33exportnigeria).” Brand Manager, Rex Anieke, urged football fans and consumers to stay solid behind the team as they prepare for the final qualifying match in Lagos and the main tournament next year in Cameroun. “The brand’s partnership with Super Eagles is a unique one and “33” Export Lager is passionate at building a solid fan base for the team in something similar to what is obtained among top European clubs in Europe,” he remarked.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .