Africa Oil & Power (AOP) (www.AfricaOilandPower.com) – Africa’s premier energy event organizer – will host a two-day Presidential Award Ceremony and virtual Technical Workshops in Maputo, Mozambique on March 8-9, 2021; In partnership with the Ministry of Mineral Resources & Energy, Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos, African Energy Chamber, Mozambican Oil & Gas Chamber and Attitude HR, the two-day event serves to drive investment into Mozambique’s priority sectors; To register to attend the virtual workshops for free, please visit: https://bit.ly/30fYwYc.  Africa Oil & Power (AOP) – Africa’s premier event organizer for the energy industry – in partnership with the Ministry of Mineral Resources & Energy (MIREME), Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos (ENH), African Energy Chamber (AEC), Mozambican Oil & Gas Chamber (CPGM) and Attitude HR, will unite global investors and policymakers in the oil, gas and power industry for a technical workshop program to promote investment and drive growth within Mozambique’s energy and non-energy sectors.  The hybrid event will take place on March 8-9, 2021, serving as a prelude to the upcoming Mozambique Gas & Power (MGP) 2021 Conference & Exhibition, which will be held live in Q3 2021.  The two-day program will kick off with an invite-only Presidential Award Ceremony on March 8, in which the prestigious “Person of the Year 2020” award will be presented to President of the Republic of Mozambique H.E. Filipe Jacinto Nyusi. Attended by industry leaders and government representatives, the ceremony will include speakers from the MIREME and AEC.  The second day of the event will organize strategic discussions with the thought leaders and decision-makers within African energy and business. Under the theme, “Ensuring the future: The right path to maximize local content,” the technical workshop will be hosted by leading audit, consultancy and advisory firm Deloitte, and joined by key industry players to unpack the opportunities within local content development.  Broadcast virtually to local and global audiences, the strategic session will feature leading industry voices from formidable organizations including Total and ENH to review Mozambique’s integrated approach to local content development in a roundtable discussion format.  Leading speakers participating in the session will include: João Machado, Country Managing Partner, Deloitte Moçambique; Thomas Rodriguez, Local Content Manager, Total; Natalia Magaia Camba, Local Content Manager, National Petroleum Institute; and Victor Tivane, Local Content Director, ENH.  Russian scaffolding company Polati will also be joining the high-level discussions, touching upon creating and maintaining a skilled workforce, as well as establishing in-country operations through foreign direct investment and local partnerships.  In addition to local content-driven sessions, leading private sector energy distribution company TAQA Arabia is set to host a gas-to-power session, outlining Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) import projects sub-Saharan Africa, along with the impact of Mozambique’s Area 1 development on expanding gas-to-power in the region.  As AOP prepares to welcome attendees to the Presidential Award Ceremony, AOP has adopted several safety measures to ensure a safe and secure event. For further updates and latest news on Mozambique and other African markets, please visit www.AfricaOilandPower.com.  To register to attend the virtual technical workshops for free, please visit: https://bit.ly/30fYwYc. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Oil & Power Conference. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .