 Head, Strategic Brand Management, Polaris Bank, Nduneche Ezurike;  and Captain, Ikoyi Club 1938 Golf Section, Dr. Meckson Innocent Okoro at Unity Cup Golf Championship pre-tournament briefing in Lagos… on Friday.  The three-day tournament will begin on Thursday when guests are expected to arrive in Lagos, while the event proper will tee-off on Friday and run through Saturday at the lush green of Ikoyi Club 1938 Golf Course in Lagos. The bank described the Unity Golf Tournament as one that promises to gather the very best golfers around the country in an atmosphere of unity through recreation and sports. Speaking on the competition, the Acting Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank, Mr. Innocent C. Ike, said the sponsorship of the tournament underscored the bank’s conviction on the role of sports and golf in particular, in enabling national unity, and socio-economic growth. Mr. Ike described Ikoyi Club 1938 as an iconic brand that has transcended from being just a club for socialisation to a nursery for raising stars, who have gone ahead to get listed in World Amateur Golf Ranking.  He added: “We are excited to partner with the Golf section and, by extension, the Ikoyi Club 1938 in hosting this tournament. Our conviction stems from the fact that Ikoyi Club Golf Section is a foremost Golf Association in Nigeria, and hence provides us the platform for bonding, business and social good”. “As a future-determining Bank and an enabler of enterprise, we are always willing to be part of any social and business partnership that holds opportunities to the larger society,” he added. Also speaking on the competition, newly elected Captain of the Golf Section of Ikoyi Club, Dr. M.I. Okoro, thanked the bank for supporting the tournament and expressed optimism that the partnership would strengthen the already existing relationship between the bank and the Ikoyi Club community. He said the open amateur golf tournament expected to feature about 350 golfers drawn from registered clubs across the country, gives each club the opportunity to present five players for the competition. Other highlights of the three-day tournament, he said, include a cocktail at the clubhouse on March 25, while ladies, veterans and some guests will take to the field the next day. The tourney ends on Saturday with a grand finale, which will see handicap 0-14 male and guests play for prizes.  “This will be followed presentation of awards to winners at a gala night that would have in attendance, the Governors of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma, and his Lagos State counterpart and host Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The Innoson Auto manufacturer/Founder, Chief Innocent Chukwuma will also attend alongside other top dignitaries. “Royal Father of the day is the Oniru of Iruland, Lagos, His Royal Majesty, Oba Abdulwasiu Omogbolahan Lawal, Abisogun II.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .