 President Muhammadu Buhari PHOTO: TWITTER/ GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA  Naming terrorism, insurgency, displacement of persons, and climate change as some of the major and real threats to human existence, the President, who was receiving letters of credence at the State House, Abuja, urged the diplomats to work towards building stronger relations, with focus on providing joint solutions to the existential problems. The Nigerian leader took delivery of the credentials of the High Commissioner of The Gambia, Mr. Mohamadou Musa Njie, Ambassador of South Korea, Mr. Kim Young-Chae, his Slovakian counterpart, Mr. Tomas Felix, High Commissioner of Australia, Mr. John Gerard Donnelly, his Bangladeshi colleague, Mr. Masudur Rahman and Ambassador of Guinea Bissau, Dr Jaao Ribeiro Butiam. He said: “I would like to lay emphasis on the need for us to come together to address and overcome our common challenges. Terrorism, insurgency, displacement of persons, climate change, population explosion, human trafficking, corruption, poverty, and proliferation of small arms and light weapons are all either the sources of conflict or results of it. “These challenges, though on a diverse scale, threaten the existence of humanity and human relations. These challenges underscore the need for the international community to work together to collectively identify appropriate measures to globally overcome them.” Buhari told the envoys that the novel coronavirus remained humanity’s greatest danger, as it does not only affect public health but also has a devastating effect on people’s economies and livelihoods. “Although countries around the world have commenced the vaccine rollout against the pandemic, mitigating the spread of the virus and the impact of its infection remain a cause for concern,” the President added. He assured the new ambassadors that Nigeria enjoyed very good bilateral relations with their countries, stressing the need to enhance the cordial ties for the benefit of the citizens. Buhari continued: “In addition to the fraternal relations between us, one thing Nigeria has in common with your countries is peace. Peace is priceless, desirable, and crucial to sustainable development and attainment of the targets set by the United Nations global initiatives. “It is, therefore, imperative for us to work individually and bilaterally for sustainable peace. Achieving global peace is vital to attaining food security. Peace and food security should be pursued simultaneously.” Welcoming the diplomats formally to the most populous black nation, Buhari urged them to build on the feats of their predecessors. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .