Femi Fani-Kayode The Oyo State Co-ordinator of the Oodua Peoples’ Congress (OPC), Rotimi Olumo and residents of Igangan, yesterday, berated a former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, over the claim that the arrested warlord, Iskilu Wakili, being interrogated by the police was not the most dreaded Wakili terrorising Igangan and its environs. Olumo said Fani-Kayode’s claim was untrue and misinformation taken too far. The Igangan residents, under the aegis of Igangan Development Advocates (IDA) through its Convener, Oladiran Oladokun, said the former minister should comment on only what he knows. The OPC chieftain described the former minister as a spoiler, agent of destruction and a political feather-weight reputed for changing narratives and misinforming the public. Olumo, while reacting to the former minister’s claim that the kidnap kingpin apprehended and handed over to the police was not Wakili, said that Fani-Kayode’s utterances merited no response but because it came at a time when the chief tormentor of Ibarapa people is still in custody, it is reasonable to respond and clear the air on the issue. He berated the Abuja-based politician, saying that the former minister remains one of the few politicians that thrive in telling lies and misinforming the public. He said: “Fani-Kayode has a reputation for using his social media page to torment trouble and cause disunity in Yorubaland. He had once said that the Yoruba language was Anago. How can you take such a person to be serious? “I remembered former President Olusegun Obasanjo had said once that Fani-Kayode could do anything for money and survival. “He lives in Abuja romancing with the North, yet he was the first to claim that the kidnapper was not Wakili. Where did he get his information? “With his untenable claim, I know and I am sure that the former minister is doing the bid of his paymasters that are majorly from the North. He is the undisputed spokesperson of any politician that is ready to feather his nest. “He should be warned to stop drumming the beat of disunity in Yorubaland. Fani-Kayode was one of the few people that called and congratulated our leader, the Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Adams on Monday on the success of the operation of the OPC, and the following day, he twisted the story refuting the claim that the man apprehended was not Wakili.” “Fani-Kayode is very close to prominent politicians in the North, yet none of them trusts him because they know that he is purely a political agent that cannot be trusted. He did everything to change every story. How can you take such a man so serious.” Olumo, however, urged the South-West governors, traditional rulers and all the leaders and stakeholders to support the OPC, the South-West Security Stakeholders Group (SSSG) and other security outfits in ensuring that the region is safe for residents.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .