 Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. Photo; TWITTER/RAUFAAREFBESOLA  The Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) Medium Term Plan for 2017 – 2020 was developed by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to restore economic growth while leveraging the ingenuity and resilience of the Nigerian people – the nation’s most priceless assets.  NIS’s Technology Building
Built by Messrs Julius Berger, the NIS N9.1 billion Technology Building underscores the preeminent role of information technology in security management, with the context of the current socio-economic and security challenges facing the country. The project, which started in 2018 and has been fully delivered, is now regarded as a symbol of the ongoing digital revolution in the country.
   
The Technology Building houses the National Command and Control Centre of NIS, thus providing a unique platform for security agencies in the country to truly synergise and harmonise efforts under one roof to frontally address various national security concerns using the instrumentality of Information and Communication Technology.  In the same vein, Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, said the ICT infrastructure project conceived and well-implemented under the supervision of his Ministry, is National Command and Control Centre, for all data coming from border management outposts, “be it satellite, earth connecting stations, and unmanned space vehicles.”  He assured that the security challenges the country currently faces are surmountable and indeed being addressed through ICT, as demonstrated currently by NIS leadership.
 
Though there are shared security concerns in the country, Aregbesola assured that the government was doing everything possible to tackle the security challenges in the country’s land, sea, and air borders. While acknowledging that the NIS has deployed adequate security for air border, the minister admitted that our land borders remain the weakest link, requiring a more advanced technology deployment approach, just as the Technology Building, to address the concerns.  Economic/security imperatives of project
The NIS’s Technology Building makes it a great investment and a huge contribution to global security, particularly with its effective connectivity to special platforms such as the International Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) and International Civil Aviation Organization’s Public Key Directory (PKD) and Public Key Infrastructure (PKI). While the PKD is a central repository for exchanging the information required to authenticate e-Passports, PKI, on the other hand, is a hierarchical system made up of hardware, software and strict policies enabling the management, distribution, use, storage, and revocation of digital certificates and public-key encryption.
 
Using PKI technology, governments and organisations can securely manage their keys and certificates-establishing and maintaining a trustworthy working and networking environment. A PKI enables the use of encryption and digital signature services across a wide variety of applications such as for digitally signing ePassports or eIDs. All these, according to stakeholders will help in ensuring credible identity security management which will help in boosting the nation’s economy, enabling increased Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The NIS’ Technology Building, therefore, offers a lot of security benefits to the country. According to them, with the project, both local and transnational criminal activities can easily be monitored and nipped in the bud.
    
In a related development, Babandede has disclosed that the Federal Executive Council (FEC) recently approved the Security Data Intelligence contract, which is a data consolidation, reconciliation, and reporting solution.  For all the achievements in evolving a world-class migration management agency since he assumed office in 2016, Babandede commended the Federal Government, the United Nations agency for Migration, the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) for galvanizing international support for NIS to build the Migration Information Data Analysis System (MIDAS), one of the biggest and effective Border Management Information System in the country.  Stakeholders’ remarks
Meanwhile, stakeholders have said the Technology Building could not have come at a better time than now as it has placed the Service in a vantage position to confront the criminal activities of terrorists, migrants, smugglers/human traffickers, and other transnational criminal elements, who may want to use or route their nefarious activities through Nigeria’s international borders. They also observed that with the Technology Building, the NIS has also been equipped with a major ICT infrastructure that will keep it ready at all times to confront and check such reprehensible activities in line with international best practices. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .