Simple Everyday Makeup Routine For Older Women When it comes to beauty, age is really just a number; you hold the power to make yourself look as young as you want with only a few products. Ageing is natural, associated with a steady decline in body functions. As you age, it is no surprise that your skin starts to show some decline. Every woman has a little panic attack when she notices her crow’s feet for the first time. Crow’s feet, wrinkles, sagging, dull skin. These things freak us out, and it is totally okay to admit that. The beauty industry knows how paranoid we are about our age telling on our skin. This is why it releases products targeted at making you look younger, getting rid of wrinkles, crow’s feet and brightening up the skin. The only way to maintain your youthful glow is through proper skin care; at the same time, makeup remains an instant “pick me up.” There is no magical skincare product that can instantly switch out our ageing skin for the skin of our youth. But with makeup, everything is possible. How would you feel if you could instantly look ten years younger than you do right now? With this simple, natural makeup routine, you can look younger every day. The Simple Makeup Routine
Start with a Primer
As with every other makeup routine, you must start with a primer. Priming your face helps your foundation and concealer glide on smoothly. It also minimises the appearance of large pores on the skin.
This way, your foundation does not create visible dots along your forehead and nose. In oily skin, priming minimizes the secretion of oil, allowing your makeup to last longer. In all, primers help with product placement on the face, whether it is a face primer or an eyeshadow primer. Wear your foundation in your own shade 
The trick to looking younger is a dewy foundation look, and the best way to achieve this is to get a foundation in your shade. Next, blend properly, dabbing light strokes with a foundation brush.
Make sure to apply the foundation lightly in the beginning so you can build on it as you see fit. Keep in mind that applying foundation lightly creates an even more natural and long-lasting look, especially on more mature skin. Build up as you see fit, but do not do too much. Under-eye Concealer
Use concealer under your eyes in a shade a tone or two lighter than your actual shade. You are doing this because you want brightness under your eyes.
Especially if you have dark circles there, blend it in with your beauty blender and foundation brush, and you should see the brightness under your eyes immediately. Eyeshadow
For a simple, natural look, you don’t have to do too much. This is not the routine for the colourful swirls and cut creases. Pick a neutral colour of eyeshadow or even matte eyeshadow as they have a much more suitable effect on mature skin. On the other hand, shimmery eyeshadows highlight wrinkles and should be a no go for this look. Finally, finish your eye look by applying your neutral shade of eyeshadow closer to your lash line; you can also take it higher if you want. Brows, Eyeliner and Mascara
Draw your outline and fill in your brows with a brown brow pencil. Brown pencils look more natural on our dark skin than black ones. Use light strokes so that you can build up as you go along.
For your eyeliner, just wing it! Seriously, take your eyeliner from the inside of your eyes to the outside and stop. For a simple, natural, everyday look, this will be enough. Use your mascara as you normally do by applying it to your upper and lower lashes. Blush
Take your brush and apply your blush just under your cheekbones. Blush adds a healthy, pink glow to your cheeks. It also gives your cheekbones some definition.
However, applying blush is not a necessary part of this makeup routine for everyone.
The pink hues of blush don’t show as prominently for people who are very dark-skinned. So if you are very dark-skinned, you might want to leave this out or try out different blush colour hues till you find one that matches your skin. Lipstick
There are two ways to go with lipstick. You can go with the more neutral colours for a completely muted look. Or you could go with something bold for that pop of colour.
Neutral colours you could use are the nudes and the browns, soft pinks. The nudes you should use are should be soft and at least a shade or two darker than your skin tone. For a pop of colour, a red will always be a classic choice, always!. A glossy lip is preferable to a matte for older ladies. Gloss lips brighten up the whole look and make your whole face glow.