 [FILES] Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN)  Malami, therefore, called for International Cooperation in facilitating Mutual Legal Assistance for tracing, freezing, seizing, confiscating, and returning to Nigeria, proceeds of corruption stashed abroad. He made the call while virtually delivering Nigeria’s Country Statement at the 14th United Nations Crime Congress held in Kyoto from March 7 to 12, 2021. This is contained in a statement by Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice issued to newsmen in Abuja. According to the minister, there is a need for the international community to demonstrate political will in removing all barriers and obstacles to the full implementation of the provisions of the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC), particularly Article 51 on Asset Recovery and Return, including cases that make use of settlements or other non-trial resolutions. “Our major objective should be to narrow the gap between confiscated assets and actual assets returned to their legitimate owners,” he stated. He said Nigeria was hopeful that the adoption of the Political Declaration on crime prevention and criminal justice would spur more action and greater efforts in crime prevention and criminal justice. While maintaining Nigeria’s commitments to the 2030 Agenda, Malami pointed out that Nigeria continues to take measures to fulfill her obligations under UNCAC and United Nations Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime (UNTOC) by improving domestic conditions through a comprehensive Strategic Action Plan. “Nigeria condemns cybercrimes and terrorism in all manifestations and calls on states to strengthen cooperation at all levels to combat the threat posed by terrorism through enhancement of timely information sharing, logistical support, and capacity-building activities to affected states, including combating the linkage between terrorism and corruption, illicit financial flows, cybercrime, and trafficking in drugs,” he said. Malami said Nigeria develops laws and policies to prevent crime and ensure justice for victims, offenders, and society. “Nigeria is simultaneously addressing the socio-economic challenges at the root of crimes. It is, therefore, pertinent to underscore the importance of more international community investment in stakeholders’ capacity building to improve crime prevention and criminal justice efforts,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .