 Majekodunmi  The institute observed that despite these professionals spending more years in training, they are often made to play second fiddle in their organisations. NIA Chairman, Lagos State chapter, David Majekodunmi, made this known when he led executive members of the institute on a courtesy visit to the new General Manager of Lagos State Building Control Agency (LABSCA), Gbolahan  Oki. He stressed that a number of professionals in the built environment are shortchanged more in the civil service. He advocated for more engagement of professionals in the built environment in the inspection and certification of various stages of building projects. While expressing appreciation to the governor for appointing an architect as  general manager of the agency, Majekodunmi called for more recognition of allied professionals. According to him, the era of professionals in civil service playing second fiddle is over and government should encourage them to excel. Majekodunmi urged the agency to take the message of building control to the grassroots through the Baales and Community Development Committees (CDCs) in the state. The Vice Chairman of the chapter, Abiodun Fatuyi, who presented a copy of the architects’ compendium that showcased their feat to the general manager, stressed the need to improve architects’ perception in the society. Responding, Oki said it is now mandatory for professionals working in the agency to register with their professional bodies within three years. He said failure to do this would lead to their not being posted to any department. The measure, he said, will encourage professionalism in building control and administration. He promised to support NIA to achieve its mission in the built industry, adding that architects are key in building administration and control The Lagos chapter  volunteered to  assist architects, who want to register by giving them tutorials to make their registration easier. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .