 Patrice Motsepe the South African candidate to the Confederation of African Football (CAF) addresses the media during a press conference delivering his manifesto in Johannesburg on February 25, 2021. – Motsepe is running against three other candidates, Jacques Anouma of Ivory Coast, Augustin Senghor of Senegal and Ahmed Yahya of Mauritania. (Photo by Phill Magakoe / AFP)  South African billionaire businessman, Patrice Motsepe, is as good as becoming the new Confederation of African Football (CAF) president. This is because the Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS) has confirmed FIFA’s ban on incumbent president, Ahmad Ahmad, while Motsepe has been endorsed by the last of his expected challengers, Jacques Anouma of Cote d’Ivoire. In its ruling on the appeal filed by Ahmad against the November 19, 2020 decision of the Adjudicatory Chamber of the FIFA Ethics Committee, the CAS panel partially upheld the appeal and reduced the length of the suspension to two years, starting yesterday, less the period of suspension already served between November 19, 2020 and January 29, 2021. CAS also cut the fine imposed on Ahmad by FIFA from 200,000 Swiss francs ($214,311) to 50,000. CAS found Ahmad guilty of ethical violations, including the “distribution of gifts” and “misappropriation of funds”.Ahmad was also accused of using CAF money to invite presidents of some national federations on a pilgrimage to Mecca, which was “not directly related to football”. But CAS exonerated Ahmad in a separate case, which related to an alleged breach of an equipment contract with Puma in favour of French company Tactical Steel.    CAS ruling effectively rules the Malagasy out of contention for CAF’s top job, which he got four years ago when a group of young African football administrators staged a ‘coup’ and ousted Cameroun’s Issa Hayatou. At the beginning of the race to succeed Ahmad as the helmsman of African football, four candidates, including Jacques Anouma, Patrice Motsepe, Augustin Senghor and Ahmed Yahya threw their hats into the ring. But at a ceremony of African unity held at the Palais des Congrès in Nouakchott, Mauritania at the weekend, the four proposed a new direction for CAF and African football for the future. In the presence of FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, several FIFA Council and CAF Executive Committee members, as well as more than 20 presidents of African member associations, the four leaders reiterated that what unites them are much stronger than what could potentially divide them.   They, therefore, decided to join forces and form a team under the leadership of Patrice Motsepe in the lead up to the March 12 CAF presidential elections scheduled to hold in Rabat, Morocco. According to a document made available to The Guardian, the quartet agreed on a common programme inspired by their initial manifestos, but includes contributions of all African member associations and stakeholders in a participatory and inclusive process. Speaking at the event, FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, said, “I am delighted that FIFA has been able to contribute, even if just a little, to this crucial moment for football on this great continent.  “The agreement reached by the candidates is a strong signal for Africa, and also for the world. Africa is present and is a key player for the future of global football. This is also a sign of unity and commitment in bringing African football to the very top level where it should be. A united Africa behind a concrete vision and project is stronger. United we are stronger.   “This is what we were hearing from the African member associations in the last weeks, so I am sure they are also very happy at this moment. There are some great challenges ahead, but also great opportunities, and I guarantee FIFA’s support and encouragement to fulfil them, especially in line with FIFA Forward objectives related to infrastructure investment, good governance, development and competitions.” Now the sole candidate, Motsepe said African football needs collective wisdom, “but also the exceptional talent and wisdom of every president of every country and every member association.     “That’s what gives me confidence. When we all work together with the experience, talent, and passion, football in Africa will experience success and growth that it hasn’t experienced in the past. It requires all of us. “Football has a unique contribution to make. The most popular players are from Africa. Africa has proven over and over and over again that we have God-given talent amongst the players on this continent. The male, youth players and the women players as well are coming to the fore. It’s wonderful to have good plans and ideas, it’s even more wonderful to have passion.’’   To Anouma, the new partnership offers a unity that has hitherto escaped Africa.   “I am happy to be here with you to celebrate the unity of the African football family.,” he said.   “It is a decision that was discussed between the four of us, and the position from the start was to ensure that we go for unity in this election, because we were already tired enough of everything that was said about CAF. This unity was built around a common programme that we all wanted. I fully share this idea of getting together, of sharing our experiences and our intelligence. It would be a good thing for our common passion. I fully support this initiative and encourage it.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .