Executive Secretary, Lagos State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, Mr. Rahman Ishola (left); Commissioner for Home Affairs, Prince Anofiu Ekegushi; SA to the Governor on Islamic Matters, Alh. Abdullahi Jebe; Chairman SAT Mosque, Ikeja, Mr. Murtala Bamgboshe and Chairman, League of Ulamahs, Alh. Muhsin Ajagbemokeferi during a special meeting with the league of Ulamahs of the Lagos State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Prince Anofiu Olanrewaju Elegushi, has urged intending pilgrims for 2021 Hajj exercise to endeavour to take the COVID-19 vaccine whenever it arrives the country. Elegushi gave the admonition during a special meeting with the league of Ulamahs. His advice came just as Saudi Arabia’s health ministry revealed that only people who have been vaccinated against COVID-19 would be allowed to attend the Hajj exercise this year. The Commissioner urged intending pilgrims, Ulamahs and other stakeholders in the Hajj operations not to give room for discouragement from any quarter with regards to taking the vaccine whenever the Federal Government commences its dispensation in Nigeria. He added that only holders of the vaccine certificate would be allowed entry into the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia when the Hajj exercise begins. While speaking on airlifting and safety of pilgrims to and from Saudi Arabia, the Commissioner told attendees at the meeting of the plans by the State Government, through the Ministry and the Board, to ensure that a reputable airline is engaged for airlifting of intending pilgrims within two to three days of operation. He stressed that the old system whereby intending pilgrims stayed at the airport for weeks before being airlifted was gone for good. He also emphasised that any airline that defaulted on the airlifting agreement would be penalised accordingly. Recalling the inability of intending pilgrims to embark on Hajj in 2020, the Commissioner appreciated everyone affected for leaving their Hajj fare with the state government, saying that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu was greatly encouraged by the trust the pilgrims reposed in the state. Elegushi, who stated that Hajj was like a pillar that holds the entire universe together, promised that a befitting accommodation would be provided for pilgrims both in Mecca and Madinah as well as Muna. He sought the Ulamahs’ support for the state government in her quest to give the pilgrims the best of Hajj experience and medical treatment in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Special Adviser to the Governor on Islamic Matters, Alh. Ahmed Abdullahi Jebe called for a harmonious and cordial relationship between the Ulamahs and schedule officers in their dealings with intending pilgrims at the various local government areas of the state. He said their cooperation would further help the state in achieving success in the Hajj operation. The Executive Secretary, Lagos State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, Mr. Rahman Ishola; Chairman, SAT Mosque, Ikeja, Mr. Murtala Bamgboshe and Chairman of Ulamahs, Alh. Mushin Ajagbemokeferi were among dignitaries that attended the event.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .