The UCI World Tour Tirreno-Adriatico gets underway tomorrow in Lido di Camiore, Italy. The Italian stage race will comprise of 7 stages, ending with the traditional time trial in San Benedetto del Tronto.  Team Qhubeka ASSOS will be heading to Tirreno-Adriatico led by veteran climber, Domenico Pozzovivo, and backed up by a strong classics style squad.  Domenico Pozzovio will be our main card for the general classification, and so naturally he will look to ride strongly on the big stage 4 mountain summit finish as well as on the final stage, 10km individual time trial. With three punchy stages, the likes of Michael Gogl, Simon Clarke, Lukasz Wisniowski and Dimitri Claeys will look to continue with their positive and attacking approach to racing, that has yielded some strong results for our team in recent weeks. Bert-Jan Lindeman and Emil Vinjebo complete our line-up, with Tirreno-Adriatico being a special race for the 26-year-old Dane, as he makes his debut appearance at a UCI World Tour stage race. Thanks to our loyal supporter. Matt Dunningham for his assistance with announcing (https://bit.ly/30nR79c) our Tirreno-Adriatico squad. Domenico Pozzovivo
“Tirreno-Adriatico is a race that I really like, with an extraordinary starting field, which will allow me and our team to test ourselves on various kinds of parcours. This race will be very important to try to build upon our condition, on the way to the Giro d'Italia.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka ASSOS.  Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About Team Qhubeka ASSOS:
Team Qhubeka ASSOS (TeamQhubeka.com) is a purpose-led, high-performance team, fighting to win on the world's biggest stage, to inspire hope and create opportunity. Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka ASSOS (formerly NTT Pro Cycling) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in six Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. There are 19 nationalities represented across our World Tour and continental feeder team rosters. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage, since the team's inception. We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 30 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .