Comedian Eboh Bomb woke T4T up from a short nap during the week when his WhatsApp message beeped. Before T4T read the message, he was wondering what could be the problem. Was the comic act going to hold his yearly show again or is there another Governorship election coming up in Edo State (that is when he is always active on WhatsApp)? “With a serene mind of utmost gratitude, I, on behalf of my family,  want to thank God for the addition of a super man to my family and the safe delivery. I say thanks to my beautiful wife and everyone who has made this achievement a possibility. May God bless us all!” Recall T4T told you late last year that the comedian sneaked out of Lagos to the eastern part of the country and got married in a low-key ceremony because of the COVID-19 pandemic. So, nine months don reach now na wey e wife dey born? Oh, Eboh Bomb don ‘score goal’ before e go pay the bride price. BAD GUY! Anyway, congrats my brother! Just let me know when the ‘seven’ (abi na eight) day ceremony go hold make I begin drink purge medicine dey flush my belle before dat day. Charles Inojie AGAIN!
LAST WEEK, T4T reported how Nollywod star Charles Inojie thought he was still a young boy and was posing upandan with Jean pants, T Shirt and baseball cap on Facebook. Old man wey tink say e be under 25! Well, he did not pose with any hip-hop looking outfit this week, but he is facing something more serious. Kindly read his present predicament: “My attention has been drawn to a post made by a certain @charlesinojie1_ on Twitter NG earlier today using my name and photographs in an apparent bid to mislead unsuspecting members of the public. Twitter NG and indeed the general public is by this disclaimer notified of the apparent identity theft and are advised not to fall prey as the said Twitter account does not belong to me. Please guys, help report this catfish on twitter”.
  Now, you know what Charlie Papa is facing! Why Not Tonto Dikeh?
WHY were so many people so disturbed with the idea of Nollywood actress Tonto Dike being an Ambassador of the Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission? Is it because she is an actress who may have interpreted many roles moralists considered as ‘ungodly’ or because her marriage failed and culminated in a messy divorce? So, now, she is no longer fit to be an Ambassador of a supposed Christian body? By the way, who is lying between the commission and Tonto Dike? The actress visited the office of the NCPC and few hours later, she broke the news on her social media account (with photos) that she had been made an Ambassador. And all hell broke. Nigerians, always the moral judges, tore both Tonto and the commission apart. For hours, the two parties were subjected to the kind of verbal assault never seen in recent times. Was that why the commission, to save face and distance itself from the now Nigerian internet users certified ‘Jezebel’, decided to issue that unconvincing and hurried statement? “The Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission NCPC wishes to state in categorical terms that King Tonto Dikeh paid an official courtesy visit to the Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission Rev Yakubu Pam on February 25, 2021 at the corporate headquarters of the Commission in Abuja. As the founder of Tonto Dikeh Foundation, she expressed her willingness and interest in partnering with the Commission in the area of peace building. She equally cashed in on the visit to commend the NCPC boss for his positive and relentless peace initiatives across the country. However, we are suddenly inundated with claims from King Tonto Dikeh herself that she has been officially appointed as Ambassador of peace by this great Commission. This claim has gone virile in the media.The Commission frowns at this claim, which is a clear misrepresentation of what transpired. The fact remains that the Executive Secretary of NCPC never appointed King Tonto Dikeh an Ambassador of Peace for NCPC and this was not part of her visit  therefore this claim by her is spurious, unfounded and should be discarded and seen by all Nigerians as a figment of her imagination Nevertheless, we appreciate her desire to partner with us in our peace building initiatives and in the area of pilgrimage sponsorship to the Holy Land.”
  The statement was signed by Celestine Toruka, Head Media and Public Relations. SOMETHING IS NOT RIGHT! To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .