  The Nigerian government is also working very hard to revise and enhance its national climate change pledge through the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC). Through an ambitious NDC, the government will continue to demonstrate leadership in determination to tackle climate change, which, like the COVID-19 can be a major constraint to economic growth. Connecting the NDC with the National Economic and Sustainability Plan will help to maximize the synergies and ensure that our recovery plan also helps us to meet our Paris Climate Accord Obligations. In the recently Launched “2021 Macroeconomic Outlook Report” by the Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG) - a non-profit, non-partisan private-sector-led think tank with a mandate to promote and champion the reform of the Nigerian economy into an open, globally competitive economy, it has been identified that renewable energy sector is one of the key sectors that can act as enablers for the intended recovery. Other sectors include manufacturing, construction, trade, education, health, and professional services with ICT. The Leadership of the House of Representatives has also shown dynamism and commitment to work with the Executive branch of the government to promote legislation and policies that will facilitate the recovery along the lines that are just, equitable and sustainable in the long run. It is very important therefore that our international development partners recognize the commitment of the government, enormous work before us, and make available substantial resources that can help developing countries to scale up their effort to put climate change at the center of green recovery. It should be remembered that while Africa is one of the vulnerable continents to climate change it has contributed the least to the problem. It is therefore in the interest of equity and global solidarity that the industrialised countries do their bit to help us respond and adapt to the impact of climate change. Onuigbo, Fmr Chairman, House Committee on Climate Change is the Vice President (Africa) GLOBE International and also Chairman, Climate Parliament Nigeria Chapter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .