 Former Governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha (right); Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu; Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi; Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Acting National Vice Chairman (South East), Chief Ali Odefa, during the Zonal Executive Committee meeting of the party, in Enugu… yesterday  The Guardian gathered that the closed-door meeting called by the leader of the party in the South-East and Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, was attended by the vice presidential candidate of the party in the 2019 general elections, Mr. Peter Obi; former Governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha; Zonal Chairman of the party, Ali Odefa, among others. The meeting, it was further gathered, was a follow-up to the earlier one held last month that was graced by Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike. A source stated that the meeting was called to address pertinent issues on the way of the party as the November 6, 2021 election draws near. He said that among the issues were the lingering court matters instituted against the state leadership of the party by some aggrieved members. Although the zonal leadership was said to have earlier appealed to the concerned members to withdraw their suits and seek internal resolution mechanisms, the matters still lie in the courts. He added that the other challenge that must be addressed before the primary of the party in June this year “is whether the party will allow the zoning arrangement to continue or would allow all the aspirants participate in the exercise. “The other is the fear being expressed that the array of aspirants will make it difficult for the party to provide equal platform for all the aspirants in the exercise,” adding that “there has to be agreement that could make all of the aspirants stick to the party in the event of one of them winning the primary.” The other, he said, was to review strategies that could be adopted to enable the party win the election and reduce tensions arising from the array of interests being shown by the members on the governorship seat. It would be recalled that Wike had during his meeting with the PDP leaders in the zone and the aspirants harped on the importance of winning the election and urged the national leadership to allow the governors handle the primary. He had also harped on the need for unity in the party in the state. As at the time of filing this report, the meeting was still on. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .