 History being made as Nigeria takes delivery of about 3.9M doses of the AstraZeneca Vaccine today in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. PHOTO: Twitter  “We have not allocated these vaccines to the rich or those in the cities,” Executive Director, National Primary Health Care Development Agency Faisal Shuaib on ChannelsTV SunRise Daily. “Those who require the vaccines are going to take it first, we will not compromise on that.” Nigeria took delivery of the first batch of Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine from the COVAX facility. Emirates Boeing 777-300ER aircraft carrying 3.94 million doses of the vaccine arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, at about 11.45 a.m. and was received by the Chairman of Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha. Mustapha disclosed that special centres would be opened for top government functionaries to take the jabs. They handed over the consignment to the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who presented to the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) for sampling to ensure they were in good condition, safe and effective for Nigerians. The arrival of the vaccine will enable the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) to commence vaccination of Nigerians in priority groups, starting with frontline healthcare workers after it has been cleared by NAFDAC. The country is the third West African country to receive COVID-19 vaccine from COVAX after Ghana and Ivory Coast. Shuaib, however, noted that the vaccine is for those who are 18 years and above. He also emphasised that the first people to take the COVID-19 vaccines would be health workers treating COVID-19 patients. Nigeria’s COVID-19 confirmed cases has risen to 156,496 including 1,923 deaths, according to an update by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on Tuesday night.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .