 [FILES] Vice President Yemi Osinbajo PHOTO: Twitter  The awards were part of activities lined up for the two-day PFN 16th Biennial Conference, Enugu 2021 which is being held at the Michael Okpara Square, Enugu. Conferring the awards, the newly elected PFN President, Bishop Wale Oke, said the duo had distinguished themselves and dedicated their lives to be the service of the nation. Oke said that the awards, signed by the outgoing PFN President, Rev. Felix Omobude, were in appreciation of their support and commitment to the faith. In his speech, Osinbajo, who was the Special Guest of Honour, expressed gratitude for the special award given to him. “There can be no more coveted preferment than that conferred by one’s brethren. “I pray that you all will receive not just honour from men here on earth but in the end also from the Lord God Almighty in Jesus name. “Secondly, let me congratulate the incoming President of the PFN, Bishop Oke, founder and Presiding Bishop of the Sword of the Spirit Ministries and founder of the Precious Cornerstone University. “Bishop Oke is one of the fathers of the faith in Nigeria who has laboured for the fellowship for years, but who has also for years travelled all over this nation fulfilling a mandate of prayer for Nigeria. “For God to have enabled this foremost intercessor for Nigeria to lead this body of saints at this time is a powerful statement that the Lord has Nigeria in his plans. “He is to be supported by the irrepressible apostle of the faith Archbishop John Praise, the Presiding Archbishop of the Dominion Chapel International Churches,’’ he said. Speaking on the theme of the conference, “The Unquenchable Light,” Osinbajo said it was incredibly perceptive. He said it was the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ, who came to the world to pay the price for sins so that people attained eternal life in peace and joy. The Vice President said that the future of Nigeria was bright as a strong, united and prosperous country was in the process of being born. “We are experiencing some birth pangs, painful and difficult but this will end and we will celebrate the joy of birth. “We, who bear the anointing of our Lord Jesus Christ, know that there is no way that the glorious destiny of this nation will be subverted. “This nation is the apple of God’s eyes and this journey will end in praise to the glory of His name,’’ he said. Osinbajo also thanked Omobude for his invaluable service to the PFN. He said that the outgoing president handled PFN’s affairs with impeccable integrity, fatherly understanding, maturity and godly insight. In his remarks, Ugwuanyi congratulated the new PFN president and wished him a successful tenure. He thanked PFN for choosing the state for its 16th biennial conference and urged it to pray for the peace, security and progress of Enugu State and Nigeria in general. The event featured ministrations, march-past by delegates from different states, dance and musical renditions as well as prayers against COVID-19, banditry, insurgency, kidnapping among others. The highlight of the conference was the inauguration of the new executive members of PFN.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .