 Agege, Pen Cinema Flyover Bridge. Photo: TWITTER/JIDESANWOOLU  The flyover was conceived to transmit vehicular traffic across the intersection at Agege for the purpose of resolving the perennial traffic gridlocks peculiar to the area for many years. The entire project consists of a dual carriageway 1.4kilometre flyover component, with two lanes of 3.65 metres width each in either direction, with ramps, including the rehabilitation of five adjoining roads. The road component includes service lanes on either side of the bridge, with median, kerbs, walkways, signalised traffic system, junction improvements with low emission LED streetlights.  Ganiyat Adeleke, who commended the state government for constructing the bridge, said it is now much more convenient and easier to get to her office, noting that pedestrian lanes on the adjoining new roads built along with bridge make it easier to walk along the area. She also said the project has reduced dust that often builds up around the area as well as travel time in and out of the axis. For Moshood Abiodun, the flyover is a positive development for the community, even as he recalled that residents and commuters suffered a lot while it was being constructed, saying the project would open up the area and give room for a lot of opportunities for residents and businesses around the community. He added that it is now easier and faster to commute, compared to before and when the bridge was being constructed, just as the bridge would also serve many residing outside Agege, especially those wishing to connect Ikeja and Oshodi, rather than going through the major expressway. On his part, Victor Ihanacho, a trader, was optimistic that with the bridge, commercial activities would improve around the Agege corridor, which would mean more patronage and business growth. Motorist, Olajide Olatunji, said the bridge has added value as it has reduced and removed the constant traffic gridlock the area was noted for, saying for many motorists who use the corridor, it would reduce the stress they go through commuting daily. He was optimistic that with the bridge, street trading, which is very common within the corridor, would reduce drastically since there would be no slow traffic that gives room for street traders and traffic hawkers to operate.
 
Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu had at the commissioning ceremony, said the project was executed in the quest to achieve the Transportation and Traffic Management Pillar (TTP) in the administration’s strategic THEMES Agenda, deliberately focusing on the provision of infrastructure to achieve pre-conceived targets of reducing travel time, save important man-hours that would have been otherwise lost to traffic, provide better riding surface leading to reduced maintenance cost, boost inter-connectivity and generally make life more meaningful to commuters in the state.
 
“In line with the State Strategic Transport Master Plan (STMP), we deployed a two-pronged approach to infrastructure delivery, so as to bring immediate impactful succour and relief to commuters. To address the challenge of this huge traffic burden, we decided to continue with the construction of a Precast and Pre-stressed Reinforced Concrete Dual-carriage Flyover and Ramp, with road works, across the Agege Pen Cinema Intersection, which was then at about 20 percent completion.  “Also, through the delivery of this project, we have been able to demonstrate the linkage of delivery of road infrastructure to employment generation, (creating jobs for about 380 persons, including engineers, supervisors, artisans and others). It also shows a component of continuity in governance.
 
“A key outcome emanating from the strategic execution of this project is that our administration has again demonstrated the topmost priority it accords the welfare and well-being of the people. It is a testament to our commitment to the Greater Lagos Vision.”
 
Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, said the completion of the project shows the collaboration and strong relationship that exists between the legislative and executive arms of government. Chairman, House Committee on Works and Infrastructure, Abiodun Tobun, said the project would improve the economic and social wellbeing of the area.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .