Some 122,410 people have so far been vaccinated with the Oxford AstraZeneca jabs in Nigeria with available records indicating no serious adverse incidents since the commencement of the exercise on March 5, 2021. 
Meanwhile, the Federal Government has warned against mismanagement and diversion of the vaccines, stressing that decisive action would be taken against any offender. It has also struck a partnership with regulatory and anti-corruption agencies to strengthen accountability besides putting in place mechanisms to ensure seamless vaccine rollout across the federation. Executive Director of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib, who disclosed this at the briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 yesterday in Abuja, clarified that no Nigerian had developed any reported severe side effect except some mild symptoms like pain and swelling at the site of the vaccination in addition to body pains and little fever. He noted said full vaccination of eligible Nigerians was on in 32 states with only exception of Kogi, Kebbi, Zamfara and Oyo. He said: “It is important to note that it is possible for you to take the vaccine and have other diseases that are completely unrelated to the vaccination process. We shall continue to collaborate with the NAFDAC’s Pharmacovigilance team to monitor the administration of the vaccine and document any adverse reaction with COVID-19 vaccine to assure Nigerians that government is honest and transparent in its choice of this vaccine for the purpose of protecting the citizens against COVID-19. “Some of the information reaching us from the states is that there are reports of alleged vaccine mismanagement in some vaccination sites like the one reported at the Police Clinic, Falomo in Lagos State. The matter is being investigated and the report will be made public. We anticipate that decisive actions will be taken against anyone found culpable of subverting the vaccination process in the country.” Shuaib observed that the PTF was closely monitoring vaccine accountability in all states to check mismanagement. The NPHCDA boss stated that the results from the long awaited U.S. trial of the vaccine confirmed that it is both safe and highly effective. In his remarks, Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said Nigeria had witnessed reduction in confirmed daily cases, promising sustained testing. He disclosed that Nigeria recently received additional 300,000 doses donated by MTN. Also speaking, the task force’s Chairman and Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, stated that that Nigerian scientists had produced at least two local COVID-19 vaccines currently awaiting clinical trials and certification. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .