• APC warns against  anointment of candidate Some stakeholders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State, under the aegis of Independent Leaders Forum (ILF), are worried about certain activities in the timetable of the party for the conduct of primary in the November 6, 2021 governorship election in the state. They said that unless the anomalies were rectified, they might truncate a credible and transparent electoral process in the party and on the long run, affect the overall efforts of the PDP to reclaim the state in the election. In a statement after their meeting in Enugu, signed by the Secretary, Frank Molokwu, the group observed that the publication of delegates’ list on June 25, 2021, about 24 hours before the primary election scheduled for June 26, 2021, was suspicious and would not augur well for the party if not reviewed. It condemned the rationale behind the decision when the party had approved a list of three-man delegate on June 17, more than eight days prior to the primary election. The group said that publishing delegates’ list at least one week to the primary would give the aspirants ample time for final canvassing.
They also queried the rationale for submission of screening report about 35 days after the screening, noting that non-disclosure of the amount for Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms was suspicious. “We appeal to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP, ably led by Uche Secondus, to review these anomalies proposed in the election timetable of the party for Anambra governorship election on November 6, 2021 to bestow confidence on the aspirants and Anambra State in general. “Finally, we restate that the ILF will stop at nothing to counter and resist the usual trends and actions that robbed PDP of victory in previous governorship elections in Anambra State,” they said. MEANWHILE, the All Progressives Congress (APC) patriots have warned that any move by the national leadership of the party to anoint the candidate of the party in the forthcoming Anambra governorship poll would be destructive. The group contended that the conduct of a free and fair primary would enhance the chances of the party to emerge victorious during the November 6 poll.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .