Dimi Keye Dimeji David Ogaosun also known as Dimi Keye was born and raised in Lagos, Nigeria “The heart of Afro beats”. He is the 7th out of 9 kids. The fashion lover has been into music since when he was 11 years old but he started professionally in 2020. He describes himself as a simple person who just wants to sing and be heard globally and play his part in Afrobeats. Dimi Keye has Bsc in Computer Information Systems from Near East University and currently taking a master’s degree while pursuing his music career. In this interview, he talks about his career so far. What has your journey into music been like?
I basically was born into a family that loves music lol, I say that because my sister started composing songs way before I started and she is just beautifully talented. I started out composing R &B songs, I also used to rap in secondary school but at some point I just fell in love with Afrobeats. Over the years I have been sharpening my craft and observing how the music and industry works. I am very much excited and I can’t wait to gain more experience and grow. How would you describe your genre and style of music?
My genre is Afro-fusion. I am not just centered in Afrobeats or Afro-pop. Because of my R & B roots, there is a fusion between Afrobeats and R & B. I grow with sound and I enjoy experimenting with sounds and different genres with Afrobeats being the pedal. In the end when you hear my sound, I want you to know this is Dimi. What would you say has been the greatest influences on your music?
I am going to say life itself has been a major influence on my music. Moving to Nigeria and having to work with some of the most talented people in the industry like Mystro, Blaqbonez and lots more. Experiencing and watching Afrobeats grow also has influenced my music. What I listen to and the fact that I always want to be and do better. Has being born and brought up in Lagos, the foremost entertainment hub of Nigeria, affected or influenced your passion for music?
Absolutely! Lagos is such a wonderful place. I always say experiencing Lagos is major tool. I get inspired every day. A quick trip from Surulere to Lekki, you are bound to see something that will get your attention. The entertainment and most especially music scene is buzzing with amazing talents and this just fuels my passion for music even more Dimi Keye With the recent Grammy wins by a number of Nigerians, how do you think that will change the world view of Afro-beats?
I am so proud of the winners Burna boy, Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Femi Kuti and Made Kuti. Burna and Wiz in particular, because they have been a great influence in my career. Every successful artist right now is really pushing Afro-beats forward and that is just amazing but I also love that low-key, every new artiste coming into the industry is coming with the agenda to push their music to the global stage and this is a major game changer for our genre and continent. All of a sudden winning a Grammy is no longer fiction. The world will finally understand Afrobeats as a genre and see that most importantly it is bankable. What’s your view on collaborations? Are there any local or international artists you’d look forward to collaborating within the near future? If so please name them.
Collaborations are great and effective. It widens your range and stretches your reach. I have got a huge list of collaborations that I’d like both internationally and locally but I’d only mention a few; Party next door is number one for me, 6lack, Pink sweats and that’s international. Locally, I’d love to collaborate with Rema, Oxlade, Burna boy and lots more. I am sure I’d make a fire track with these people and basically anyone I collaborate with. What’s your take on the Nigerian Music Industry? How far do you think it has come? What are the major issues you see? How much further do you think it needs to go?
The Nigerian music industry has got lots of talent no doubt it has come very far. What I understand so far is that we need a structure in the industry. Labels, executives and creatives need to come together and brainstorm on how everyone can benefit and push their craft on a global level. Because we have the market and the talent already. The industry will keep growing regardless. As an emerging artist in the highly competitive Nigerian Entertainment Industry, what do you think would set you apart from other artists in the same category?
Dimi Keye is unique, I have got my own sound and as a brand I understand my consumers and potential consumers of my music. From the music to the fashion I believe my fans and people that listen to my music and watch my videos will see what I am about. Tell us about your upcoming project, “Afrocentric”.
Afrocentric is my debut project consisting of 5 records. I have two features from Mystro and Blaqbonez. On this project I just wanted to show my range and talk about my experience as a young African dishing out stories of love and good vibes. It includes mellow, mid-tempo and upbeat sounds. As an Eccentric African, this EP projects my style and range. Afrocentric is set
to blow your mind, give you nothing but positive vibes because that is me, I am all positive vibes and energy. What was the inspiration for “Afrocentric” and when should your fans look forward to its release?
I wanted people to hear different sounds from me, I didn’t just want to release a particular song so the best thing was to start with an EP. Let them know I am Afro(black) and I am eccentric in a good way. Afrocentric would be out on the 30th of April but on April 15th which is my birthday I got one song coming out of the EP. So, what’s next for Dimi Keye?
I will keep coming out with great music and amazing visuals with each better than the former. Features, sweet singles and more and more projects. I don’t even mind dropping another EP. So just keep up with me and get blessed with nothing but positive vibes