 (FILES) In this file photo taken on October 03, 2019 Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari looks on while giving a press conference during his official state visit at Union Buildings in Pretoria. – Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari on February 17, 2021 condemned the abduction of schoolboys from a school in central Nigeria and ordered a rescue operation, his office said. (Photo by Phill Magakoe / AFP)  The victim, Prince Dennis Abuda, was abducted on the Auchi-Benin road in Edo on Jan. 30, while returning to the U.S. after visiting his home town of Fugar. Four days later, the police found his decomposing body with bullet wounds on the Lagos-bound bypass in Benin after ransom was paid on him. The kidnappers reportedly shot him dead after he slumped while being forced into the forest. Nothing has been heard of the case since February 5, when the police said they arrested some suspects assisting them in their investigation. In the letter dated February 11, NIDOA appealed to the president to ensure that the perpetrators of the dastardly act were brought to justice to deter others. The organisation said that Abuda was a prominent and well-established member of the Nigerian community in Atlanta who dedicated his life to serving others. “He frequently travelled to Nigeria to attend to numerous charitable organisations he established to serve and better the lots of his people. “Through his numerous charitable acts, many people were empowered to be self-sustaining. “The Nigerian community in Atlanta, Georgia, and the people of his home town, have lost someone very dear to them. “Your Excellency, we appeal to you to see to it that these senseless murderers, who see no value in human lives, are brought to justices,” it said. The letter was signed by Mr Obed Monago, Chairman, NIDOA Board of Trustees; Dr Victor Ubani, President, NIDOA-Atlanta; and Mr Saheed Adeleye Secretary-General, NIDOA-Atlanta. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .