 Austen C. Ukachi. Photo: HEISALIVEBLOG<br />  The concept of light in the scriptures is detailed. Before the introduction of light, the whole world was enveloped in darkness until God spoke and said, “Let there be Light” (Gen.1:3). God’s word transformed the face of the earth. His command brought light into existence, which gave man the first glimmer of hope and salvation from the darkness. Thereafter, God created the sun and moon to give lights to the earth (Gen.1: 14-19). God will in eternity future be the Source of Light (Rev. 21:23). We also know that Jesus has always been the light from eternity past. He is the personification of the true light. Jesus came as the light to bring man out from the powers of darkness. John bore witness that Jesus was the true light. In John 1:1-5, John said Jesus is the light who gives life to men. John further said the light that Jesus brings could not be overcome by darkness. The light, which Jesus gives, is life-giving; it is transforming, it cannot be extinguished nor overwhelmed by darkness. “In Him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it” (John 1:4-5 NKJV).‬ The importance of light cannot be overemphasised. Light guides. The light of the star in the east was what guided the Magi to reach Jesus. Two, when light shines, it Illuminates our path. Metaphorically, the word of God is the light that lightens our minds and pathway. “Your word is a lamp to guide my feet and a light for my path” (Psalms 119:105 NLT). Third, light gives hope. When the light shines, it dispels darkness. Where there is no light, there will be gloom. Four, light stands in contrast with the darkness and opposition to darkness.‬ Jesus Himself declares that He is the light, and He invites those who walk in darkness to follow Him, so that they can live in the light (John 8:12). “Jesus replied, “My light will shine for you just a little longer. Walk in the light while you can, so the darkness will not overtake you. Those who walk in the darkness cannot see where they are going. Put your trust in the light while there is still time; then you will become children of the light.” After saying these things, Jesus went away and was hidden from them” (John 12:35-36 NLT). Jesus is the light of the nations and the fulfilment of Isaiah 9:2 and 42:6,7. Paul says Jesus is the light of the gospel (2 Cor.4: 4). He is also the light of the word (Psalm 119:105). He is the light of the Church (Rev.1: 20). He is the light of the believer (Psalm 27:1). And the light of the heavenly Jerusalem (Rev.21: 23). Light is a contrast to the darkness and inevitably in conflict with darkness. Men shun the light because they love darkness. Unless men come to the light of the gospel, they cannot be saved. Because of the liberating influence of light, Satan fights hard to keep men under perpetual bondage. As beacons of light, we are called to join in the fray to liberate those who are in darkness. Contact: pastoracukachi@gmail.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .