 Premium Pension Limited  The Head, Corporate Communications, Aliyu Mohammed Ali, over the weekend, in phone conversation told The Guardian that the support was part of CSR interventions, aimed at touching the lives of Nigerians nationwide where the firm operates. He applauded the healthcare providers and other frontline professionals in their ongoing efforts to make available medical care to those inflicted with the cataract disease with a view to restoring sights as well as the Charity to Cheer Foundation for the laudable initiative aimed at assisting the less privileged in the society. Speaking on the development, the Managing Director and Chief Executive officer, Umar Sanda Mairami said: “CSR is an integral part of every company’s corporate governance architecture for which can make them win international awards. “As a responsible corporate entity, Premium Pension Limited cannot stand aloof when the opportunity to help people in need and contribute to the development of the society arises.” The head, medical team and Consultant Ophthalmologist from the College of Medicine, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria Dr. Faruk Garba, described the project as rewarding, as a day after the surgery individuals can have restoration of vision evidenced by what was experienced during the clinic. He said, “Cataract can happen as part of the normal ageing process as eventually, most individual will come down with cataract. He went on to say that the severity to the vision will determine whether an individual will have a surgery or not.” Faruk therefore, advised individuals with cataract to always seek help from eye care professionals. He commended the effort of Premium Pension Limited for sponsoring the free surgery, which strongly impacted on many elderly people especially those with financial challenge and is unable to get treatment. While delivering her remarks at the occasion, the President of Charity to Cheer Foundation Dr. Maryam Shehu Mohammed, commended the support of Premium Pension Limited to the free cataract surgery. According to her, the beneficiaries were mostly senior citizens, who could not afford the cost of the surgery at a health facility.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .