Ezenwankwo • SDP’s representative, Okafor, others join party
The member representing Orumba North and South in the House of Representatives, Okwudili Ezenwankwo, has declared his intention to contest the November 6, 2021 governorship election in Anambra State under the platform of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Ezenwankwo, who made the declaration at Nanka Civic Centre, Orumba North Local Council, promised to use experiences gathered as a former President-General of the defunct Anambra State Markets Amalgamated Traders Association (AMATAS) to reposition governance for the benefit of the people in the state. He pledged to continue with the good governance of Anambra State, laid down by Governor Willie Obiano if voted into power. He said he had used his personal wealth to attract development to the people during his services as a market leader and promised to do more if given the mandate to emerge as governor of Anambra State. MEANWHILE, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate for House of Representatives in the last general elections, Chuka Sunnyside Okafor, yesterday, joined the APGA in Anambra State with his supporters numbering over 3,000. Okafor’s return to APGA attracted many prominent politicians in Nnewi South Local Council and beyond who converged at Ochi International Hotel, Amichi, to witness the epoch-making event. In his speech, Okafor said he contested the House of Representatives election under the SDP not for personal aggrandisement but to get justice for the constituency that had been marginalised for a long period of time. He said that he left APGA when some individuals hijacked the party and started running it contrary to the dreams and aspirations of the founding-fathers. In his address, Chairman of APGA in Nnewi South Local Council, Osuchukwu Azubuike, described APGA as not just a political party but also a family and movement, which would win the governorship election with a landslide victory. He said: “APGA will surprise the opposition political parties in the governorship polls because it is deeply rooted in Anambra State.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .