Cardi B And Candace Owens Have A Go At Each Other On Twitter People love drama when there is one, especially on social media, and Cardi B and Candace Owens, a US conservative commentator, are having a fight-filled day on Twitter. Cardi B and Candace Owens have gone head to head on social media again, lashing out at each other especially after Candace referred to Cardi B as a “cancer cell to society.” The back-and-forth between the rapper and the right-winger began when Cardi B sent out a tweet that sarcastically celebrated her Grammys performance of ‘WAP’ making Fox News. Cardi B shared a clip of Candace Owens’ March 16 appearance on Fox News, where the political commentator said the rapper’s performance with Megan Thee Stallion at the Grammy Awards signified “corrosion” and “the end of an empire”. She tweeted: Yaaaayyyyyyy WE MADE FOX NEWS GUYS !!! Wap wap wap https://t.co/g7AX947RMb — iamcardib (@iamcardib) March 16, 2021  Candace Owens did not allow this to pass, she responded on Twitter, calling Cardi B a “cancer cell to culture”. She added, “Young black girls are having their minds poisoned by what you are trying to package.” Just @ me next time, directly. You are a cancer cell to culture. Young black girls are having their minds poisoned by what you are trying to package and sell to them as “empowerment”. I’m one of the few that has courage to tell you the truth. You should thank me. https://t.co/qvYriScfWm — Candace Owens (@RealCandaceO) March 16, 2021  Now, Candace Owens did not stop here. She continued to tweet attacks on Cardi B, calling her “a part of a larger cancer that is manifesting in black culture” and labelling her Grammy performance “disgusting”. Owens also said that Cardi has “transformed into a stain on culture and what it means to be a woman”. While Cardi B thought it was all a joke, she sarcastically replied Candace Owens was only giving the song publicity. Matter fact I’m just going to thank Candy. She put my performance on Fox News giving it more views that boosted the views on YouTube and is counting towards my streams and sales  STREAM UP AND WAP .REMEMBER GROWN PARENTS ONLY YOU CAN MONITOR WHAT YOUR KIDS WATCH NO1 ELSE. — iamcardib (@iamcardib) March 16, 2021  However, Candace keeps going off and Cardi B was replying, the conversation suddenly took another turn; broader issues became the theme of the Twitter word fight. The heated comments also got personal, with Candace Owens and Cardi B firing off tweets about the other’s sexuality and marital status. Candace tweeted: If you think making your husband a sandwich is a sin, but popping your vagina into another woman’s vagina in front of the world is power— you are a lost soul. Cardi B replied: And as a black woman you should know better then that .You know Deum well America made caricature of black women only being good in the kitchen and taking care of children also known as the “mammy” https://t.co/EwLVNCeCx8 — iamcardib (@iamcardib) March 16, 2021  Do you think it ended there? You are wrong; Candace then accused Cardi and her team of using Photoshop to fake tweets by Owens and news pieces about her. She tweeted: This looks like a random blog that seems to have been dumb enough to have fallen for a photoshopped tweet. You tweeted that the photoshopped tweet was real and you saw it on a day that I was trending—which is a lie. You made that part up to help circulate a slanderous lie. Cardi countered with threats to sue Owens, saying: Candy girl now why you lying when you can simply Google your tweet.I should sue you for makin it seem like I photoshop something when there’s dozens of articles on it and you was trending on Twitter cause of it in November. https://t.co/XlIbC4fA7Y pic.twitter.com/VvwASqNnvd — iamcardib (@iamcardib) March 16, 2021  Didn’t you just tweeted that Me and my team are photoshopping shit to take you down and now your saying that the blog was wrong even if you was trending in November all day cause of the tweet? Which one is it ?I should sue you for saying I’m photoshopping shit https://t.co/v9JuUeG3dT pic.twitter.com/pyLsfbwBOZ — iamcardib (@iamcardib) March 16, 2021  After this, Candace tweeted about her how and how her tweet-fight with Cardi B is making the show trend: My show #CANDACE is dropping on Friday and it’s already the #1 trending topic in the country. Be sure to subscribe to @realdailywire and to send a thank you note to @iamcardib for her work as my hype man. pic.twitter.com/YNpfZIgmoW — Candace Owens (@RealCandaceO) March 17, 2021  A tweet to which Cardi B replied: I’m not your hype man I’m your MOTHER .You look for me when you need help on your career not the other way around .YOU NEED ME I DONT NEED YOU .Now say thank You mommy Belcalis. https://t.co/1oXcRvrCJf — iamcardib (@iamcardib) March 17, 2021  Your show is not the trending topic .Actually the description says you are trending for arguing with your MOTHER about her wet ass pussy not your show .AINT NO BODY CAME TO SEE YOU OTIS https://t.co/1oXcRvrCJf pic.twitter.com/u7Usu4Cgvr — iamcardib (@iamcardib) March 17, 2021  Cardi B and Candace Owens had previously traded words on Twitter last September, argument which was over Cardi’s interview with then-presidential candidate Joe Biden.