 Hope Uzodimma. Photo; TWITTER/HOPEUZODINMA1  While interacting with journalists at the Government House, he maintained that it was government’s primary responsibility  to protect lives and property of its people. He said: “In the next couple of weeks, governors of the Southeast will hold a security summit in Owerri, with a view to fashioning out modalities for setting up a security outfit for our region. “It’s necessary for every zone to be vigilant and have a security outfit, especially with the present situation in the country. We must be careful in the way we go about it…” The governor also condemned alleged spate of looting by the previous administration, vowing not to spare anyone in recovering all looted property in the state. Meanwhile, Uzodimma, his wife, Chioma, Deputy, Prof. Placid Njoku, his wife, Bola, and other government officials, yesterday, took Oxford AstraZeneca jabs. The governor also used the opportunity to flag off the exercise, allaying fears its efficacy was in doubt. At the ceremony held at the premises of the Imo State Primary Health Development Agency (ISPHCDA), along Umuguma Road, New Owerri, Uzodimma said: “Vaccine was confirmed all over the world, as the most safe, effective and solution to the dreaded virus.” Others, who were vaccinated included Speaker, Imo State House of Assembly, Paul Emeziem, his Deputy, Amara Chyna Iwuanyanwu, acting Chief Judge, Justice Ijeoma Aguguo and other frontline workers in the state. Uzodimma said: “If there is anyone, who doesn’t want to die, it is me. I want to give confidence to my people. I want them to see that government means well. I and my wife, my deputy and his wife will take the vaccine right here today.” He also appealed to the people to observe non-pharmaceutical measures to safeguard their health against the disease. The Executive Secretary, ISPHCDA, Rev. Sr. Maria-Joaness Uzoma thanked the governor for “uplifting the primary health care sector; provision of official vehicles, ambulances and other amenities needed for the smooth running of the Agency.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .