 Burna Boy  As he noted: “This is a big win for Africans of my generation all over the world.” Burna Boy describes his music as “Afrofusion”: an inventive mix of Afrobeat, dancehall, reggae, R&B, and road rap originated from Africa, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, and Black America, combined with classical Western violin and piano. Nigeria’s $73 million entertainment industry is the fastest growing in the world. Though the albums of Sunny Ade, Femi Kuti, and Seun Kuti had all previously been nominated for Grammys, none had ever won the award. This victory demonstrated Burna Boy’s gritty determination, having lost last year to Beninois songstress, Angélique Kidjo, in the same category. The Nigerian superstar has 6.3 million followers on Instagram; his albums have drawn tens of millions of streams; and Twice as Tall had 5 million streams in its first hour of release.
 
Burna Boy sees himself as part of a youthful generation that is seeking to transform the negative image of Africa as a continent of wars and famine. His songs are local but seek a global audience. Having burst onto the music scene in 2011 – the year of the youth-led Afro-Arab Spring – he identifies strongly with Africa’s 60% youth population. He is articulate and soft-spoken, and driven by a sense of divine destiny to leave a lasting legacy through his music. He has thus consciously sought to create a body of work that captures the zeitgeist. A generous collaborator, Burna Boy mobilizes a Pan-African orchestra to create revolutionary anthems.
 
Supremely self-confident, the Nigerian singer firmly believes he is better than any of his rivals. But he is also a paradox: his shy and humble private demeanour contrasts starkly with his flamboyant and brash stage alter-ego. He is also deeply religious wearing a cross as an ear-ring amidst a body full of tattoos, rings, and jewelry: all in the image of a foul-mouthed gangsta rapper.  Professor Adebajo is the director of the University of Johannesburg’s Institute for Pan-African Thought and Conversation in South Africa.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .