 SIM Card  With over two months into the ban on activation of new Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) cards in the country by the Federal Government, calls for a review of the process have continued to resonate. Already, going by data from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), some 7.6 million lines have become inactive within this period and over N10 billion lost by network operators. Like industry analysts and groups that had earlier called for the lifting of the ban, telecommunications operator, 9mobile joined the train yesterday, canvassing a review of the process. Speaking at a virtual meeting to unveil a new Internet growth initiative, the Chief Commercial Officer, 9mobile, Stjepan Udovicic, said the SIM policy has affected customers, both old and new, “we hope the ban will not be for too long. We hope it will be lifted soon to improve subscriptions both on voice and data services.” The firm announced an affordable and data service initiative with the introduction of its upgraded MiFi and Router offerings. MiFi devices can be connected to a cellular network to provide Internet services for up to ten devices, while routers can be connected to a cellular network to provide Internet services for up to 30 devices. Udovicic disclosed that the new offerings demonstrated 9mobile`s commitment to boosting individuals and businesses with affordable data connectivity. “We are committed to providing affordable offerings, especially as COVID-19 has altered the world of work. Nowadays, more people are working remotely as they need affordable data to deliver their tasks and stay connected online with colleagues and business associates. Our refreshed MiFi and Router offers will see our customers enjoying more for less. For instance, a customer gets 20GB instant sign-up data bonus, and additional 15GB data every month for 12months, plus a free MiFi device at N36,000”. Also, customers will get a 30GB instant sign-up data bonus, and additional 20GB every month for 12months, plus a free Router device. Udovicic added that the MiFi and Router devices also come with other variant data offers. For MiFi`s, there are three more variants where customers can get a sign-up data bonus and additional data starting from N16,000. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .