Says it’ll mobilise people to take over Govt House
Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Anambra State Chapter, Chief Ndubisi Nwobu, has dismissed the insinuation by the All Progressives Congress (APC) that “seen and unseen forces” would be used to win the November 6, 2021 governorship election in the state, insisting that the party is mobilising people in the state to win the election. Nwobu stated this at the party’s secretariat in Awka, at the weekend, while receiving the 21 Siena Space Wagon cars donated to the state PDP by one of the governorship aspirants, Dr. Winston Udeh, to facilitate movement of party members in the state. He said that whatever undemocratic plot they had would never see the light of day as the people of the state would choose their next governor by themselves. It would be recalled that both the Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma and the Minister for Labour & Productivity, Dr. Chris Ngige, had last month boasted that the APC would employ ‘seen and unseen forces’ to win the November 6, 2021 governorship election in Anambra State. The state party boss, who decried the statement, assured that PDP is re-strategising and mobilising party faithful and members of the public to vote for PDP, saying all measures had been put on ground to win the election. “Anambra is not any other state. We need a strong party. PDP will mobilise Anambra people to produce a better governor for the state. We will take over Agu Awka come November 6. We urge for the support and votes of everybody in the state,” he said. He commended Udeh for donating the vehicles and assured that they would be used diligently for party functions. Earlier, Udeh said that his ambition was to become governor, which would enable him transform the state, especially the commercial city of Onitsha and impact positively on lives of the people. He said: “We see that nothing is working. I know what people are passing through. People are not happy and we cannot continue like this.” Udeh said he decided to donate the 21 vehicles to reduce the mobility challenges the party officials were encountering in the course of performing their duties, especially at this period of mobilising people for the forthcoming governorship poll. He, therefore, solicited support from all to ensure victory in the governorship election, saying: “Even if I don’t get the governorship ticket, the most important thing is for PDP to move on.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .