Liquid Intelligent Technologies (www.LiquidTelecom.com), a pan-African technology group, today announces the culmination of its extensive business transformation from being a telecommunications and digital services provider to a full one-stop-shop technology group through a group-wide rebrand.  Over the last two decades, Liquid has firmly established itself as the leading pan-African digital infrastructure provider with an extensive network spanning over 73,000 KM.  This rebrand to Liquid Intelligent Technologies highlights the organisation's expansion of its Cloud business, Cyber Security services, and other technologies added to its existing telecoms and connectivity capability.  This furthers the Group's aim of accelerating growth by providing tailor-made digital solutions to businesses in the public and private sectors across the continent.  This strategic rebrand reflects Liquid's new digital-first product offerings, enabling employees and customers to interact with each other digitally irrespective of the time or location. By aggressively expanding into new countries, including Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo, Liquid Intelligent Technologies is bringing its award-winning high-performance network connectivity closer to more people and accelerating the development of the digital workplace. Liquid Intelligent Technologies will expand its Managed Services offerings to drive and ensure successful adoption of tools to re-imagine their customers' businesses and how they work and connect. Whether they are focused on enabling collaboration or utilising the most advanced cloud applications. As a Microsoft Gold Partner, Liquid Intelligent Technologies is redefining Network, Cloud and Cyber Security offerings through strategic partnerships with leading global players, bringing innovative business applications, intelligent cloud services and world-class security to the African continent. With the future of network security-driven from the cloud, Liquid Intelligent Technologies' recently launched its Cyber Security business unit, which uniquely delivers security at its core, protecting your business's data throughout its lifecycle. According to Nic Rudnick, Group Chief Executive Officer, Liquid Intelligent Technologies, “Our ongoing investment in our networks and data centres across Africa have uniquely positioned us to utilise our infrastructure to accelerate the availability of new intelligent technologies including the high computing power of the Cloud, Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security to our customers. We are now excited to be executing our vision of bringing new technological opportunities to the market with a highly differentiated product set supported by our existing infrastructure and digital innovation. “ Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Liquid Intelligent Technologies. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .