 [FILE] Ondo State Governor, Olurotimi Akeredolu (middle), during the passing-out parade of pioneer Amotekun Corps officers in Akure  Afenifere particularly commended the governor for bringing together the South-West governors to tackle insecurity and making the security of lives and property of the people a priority. Secretary-General of Afenifere, Bashorun Sehinde Arogbofa, who led a delegation to the governor’s office, yesterday, while on a courtesy visit, also commended the governor for his tenacity and bravery on the creation of Amotekun in the region. Arogbofa stated that the creation of Amotekun was a forerunner to the state police, which he said, Afenifere had always advocated. “We salute your courage. We saw the Amotekun thing as a forerunner to the state police. What can any government do without security? Security of lives and property should be priority. We commend you.” The socio-political organisation also hailed the governor over the payment of West African Examinations Council (WAEC) fee, adding that the parents and people are happy with the gesture. Arogbofa, who noted that the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, established ranches because Yoruba people were involved in the cattle business, enjoined the governor to bring back ranches in the state. “Our parents used to rear cattle. My grandfather used to rear cattle. Our great leader, Chief Awolowo, also established some cattle ranches then. Let’s go back to it. You can bring it back. There is Akunnu Cattle Ranch there. Let’s go back and establish ranches.” Akeredolu thanked the organisation for acknowledging his efforts on security, stressing that the security of lives and property is very crucial. He said: “Thank you for noting our efforts on the security of the state. You have captured it succinctly in a way that you can’t put it better. We met with a lot of forces and it was not easy and it is still not easy. “We thank God that in all of Amotekun’s efforts till date, we have not suffered any casualty. “Amotekun is going to be a forerunner for state police. We believe that our security architecture needs total restructuring. There must be multi-level system of policing.” “This is where I believe part of the issue of restructuring lies. People who thought restructuring is about secession are wrong. We must restructure fiscal policy. We must restructure to show true federalism. “President Muhammadu Buhari has done a few things on restructuring more than any President. But we are still clamouring for more. Thanks for your reference to ranches. We are not going to give our land to foreigners. But ranches are important.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .