Beyonce Makes History With 28 Awards 20 Years After First Grammy. In 2001, Beyonce won her first Grammys and this became just the beginning of many wins and a journey for making history and breaking boundaries. On Sunday, 14th of March, she made Grammys history by becoming the woman with the most Grammy awards ever at the music industry’s top awards gala, and its most decorated singer, with 28 career wins. Timeline of Beyonce’s Grammy win Beyonce now ties the record with music impresario Quincy Jones as the living person with the most Grammys. Queen Bey surpassed bluegrass-country singer Alison Krauss who previously held the record with 27. Only classical conductor Sir Georg Solti has more, with 31. Beyonce’s 28th Grammy was presented in honour of  Black Parade, a celebration of black power and resilience, which she released on Juneteenth of last year. In total, Beyonce has 28 Grammy Awards, 79 Grammy Nominations, 6 Grammys won in one night (record matched by Adele), and 7 Grammys for consecutive albums. The popstar was also part of another historic moment when Megan Thee Stallion became the first female artist to win the best rap song award. Beyonce Knowles first captured the public’s eye as the lead vocalist of the R&B group Destiny’s Child. She later established a solo career with her debut album Dangerously in Love, becoming one of music’s top-selling artists with sold-out tours and a slew of awards. Knowles has also starred in several films, including Dream Girls. Destiny’s Child comprised Beyoncé Knowles, Kelly Rowland, and Michelle Williams. Together, they released five albums and won three Grammy Awards, first in 2001. Years after they all went solo, Beyonce brought them together. During 2018 Coachella, Beyonce brought Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams on stage during her headline set. The trio began their surprise performance with their 2004 hit Lose My Breath, followed by Say My Name and Soldier. Beyoncé started singing at an early age, competing in local talent shows and winning many of these events by impressing audiences with her singing and dancing abilities. Giving a speech at her 28th Award, she said: I am so honoured. I’m so excited. As an artist, I believe it’s my job to reflect the times, and it’s been such a difficult time. So I wanted to uplift, encourage, celebrate all of the beautiful black queens and kings that continue to inspire me and inspire the world. Queen Bey makes history with 28 awards, 20 years after her first Grammy win. 