 National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the commission, Alhaji Zikrullah Hassan, made the appeal at a meeting with Ulama, held at Hajj House, on Monday in Abuja. He said the meeting was organised to enable NAHCON interact and intimate clerics on its vision and activities as well as seek advice of the clerics on Hajj matters. Hassan emphasised the need for clerics to sustain enlightenment on risk factors associated with COVID-19 pandemic with a view to curtail the spread of the virus. “This work will become increasingly important as we confront disinformation and unsubstantiated rumour about the efficiency and safety of the COVID-19 vaccines. “It is imperative for our brothers and sisters to adhere strictly to the Federal Government protocols to curve the spread of the pandemic,” Hassan said. He disclosed that the commission was in touch with the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 to ensure early and adequate Hajj travel arrangements that would meet the standard to be set by the Saudi Authorities and World Health Organisation (WHO). Hassan expressed the hope of Hajj for Nigerian Muslims this year since the lesser Hajj (Umrah) had started and COVID-19 vaccine distribution had kicked off globally. He, however, said that the commission was waiting formal pronouncement on 2021 hajj by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Responding, Sheikh Abdullahi Bala-Lau, the National Chairman, Jama’atu Izalatul Bidi’ah wa Ikamatus Sunnah, assured the commission of the clerics support for a successful hajj operation. Also, the Chief Imam of Lagos State, Sulaimon Oluwatoyin, stressed the need for the commission to improve on mobilisation of pilgrims and departure time to avoid keeping pilgrims for days at Hajj Camps during operation. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the meeting was attended by Islamic clerics from the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .