Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State has commissioned the first Computerised Vehicle Inspection Centre in Abia State, with a charge to the operators to make the facility an enabler of transport business growth in the state. Commissioning the facility in Aba at the weekend, Ikpeazu said the transport business should not be an obstacle to the economic development of the state, adding that with the facility, Abia had joined economically developed states. Noting that a good transport system would enhance trade and commerce, economic development and investment, he charged transporters to be good ambassadors of the state. The governor encouraged all transporters to find time and make their vehicles road-worthy by making use of the facility. He urged the police and other security agencies to support the facility, while the Ministry of Transport should mount advocacy campaigns on the need for drivers to patronise the facility. The Permanent Secretary, Abia State Ministry of Transport, Mrs. Ijeoma Okere, thanked the governor for the project, which she described as world-class, and informed that the facility would boost the economy of the state. With the facility, Abia has joined the league of states with shared commitment to reduce carnage on the roads to the barest minimum, said the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Abia State Computerised Vehicle Inspection Centre, Aba, Segun Obayendo. The facility will also operate the Drivers Testing Theory (DTT) to ensure that the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) issues only certified drivers with driving licence. In line with the governor’s mandate, the centre will also provide free diagnostic scans for vehicles as part of the inspection services to the people. He appreciated the governor’s commitment to safety, adding that he took the bull by the horn to address one of the three major causes of accidents on the roads, which is defective vehicle, and in compliance with the United Nations Module for Vehicle Inspection and Road-worthiness Issuance. With the commissioning of the facility, road-worthiness certificate for vehicles would be issued solely by the Computerised Vehicle Inspection Centre, thus keeping touts that divert government revenue at bay.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .