Emanuella Wins Big At Nickelodeon Kids Choice Awards Nigeria’s comedy star, Emanuella Samuel, known as Emanuella has won the Nickelodeon Kid Choice Awards 2021 in the ‘Favorite African Social Media Star’ category. Emanuella emerged winner in the “Favourite African Social Media Star” category at Nickelodeons Kids Choice Awards by public voting. She was nominated alongside Nigerian comedy group, Ikorodu Bois, South African Magician, Wian Van Den Berg; Ugandan Youth Dance Group, Ghetto Kids, Kenyan social media sensation, Elsa Majimbo, and South African media personality, Bonang Matheba. She showed her appreciation to her fans in a post on Instagram, she wrote: Congratulations to me as I won the Favourite African Social Media Star category at the Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards 2021. I am so happy to be a winner, thank you! To all my fans out there, I say thank you. To all those who voted for me, I love you so much, this win would not have been possible without you. The Awards ceremony hosted by Kenan Thompson (Kenan, Saturday Night Live), the KCAs featured show-stopping performances by the talented Justin Bieber. He took the stage to sing hit songs “Intentions” with Quavo, “Anyone” and “Hold On.” He leads the pack with five nominations this year, winning two. Emanuella Samuel was just five years old and on a family holiday when she partook in a comedy skit that would shoot her to stardom and win her four international awards. In the skit titled, “My Real Face,” she deformed her face to avoid the wrath of the headmistress and her daughter. Her catchphrase “This Is Not My Real Face Oh” quickly became household slang and a source of fascination for the kid whose actions and words defied her age. Emanuella’s daring yet hilarious actions evoked laughter and curiosity as to who the little girl was. Alongside Emanuella who won the award is the popular Ikorodu Bois who have succeeded in using everyday items to make a difference. Using little things, mostly household equipment at their disposal the kids have endeared themselves to the heart of millions across the world. The Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards, also known as the KCAs or Kids’ Choice, is an annual American children’s awards ceremony show that is produced by Nickelodeon. The show honours the year’s biggest television, movie, and music acts as voted by viewers worldwide of Nickelodeon networks. Winners receive a hollow orange blimp figurine, a logo outline for much of the network’s 1984–2009 era, which also functions as a kaleidoscope.