 FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello. Photo: FACEBOOK  The Public Relations Officer of FHIS, Mr David Barau, said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. He quoted the minister as giving the directive when the management of the scheme led by its Director, Dr Ahmed Danfulani presented working documents to him in his office. Bello, who said it was good to have many medical doctors in the scheme, however, noted that the scheme was not meant for doctors alone but also for other critical stakeholders that would complement the efforts of the organisation. He urged  the Human Resource Department of the scheme to ensure equitable distribution of professionals in the scheme. “The scheme is not a typical hospital, I noticed the first three leadership are medical doctors, yes it’s health related, but really it is a huge  enterprise and it’s going be a huge financial enterprise. “It will be dealing with people, dealing with huge amount of money, so it is more than just a medical profession. “It is important to have an organisation that is full of sound financial management, sound ICT base because you are going to deal with a lot of information and data. “So, it is beyond just medical, it is a huge enterprise that is to be run based on strict financial regulation and best business practices, so you as the head, this is something you have to think very carefully,” Bello said. The minister also directed the leadership of the scheme to ensure that  residents of the FCT were adequately enlightened about the services of the scheme. He said that awareness  could be achieved through media and publicity drive. Bello advised the leadership of the scheme to spend a lot time, energy and resources on publicity, noting that publicity  was absolutely essential. He also urged the management of the scheme to use the facilities of the FCT Call Centre and directed his special assistant on media to sit down with the management and work up the strategy. Earlier, Director of the scheme, Dr Ahmed Danfulani, had presented six working documents which according to him, had been developed by the best brains in the system with the help of many development partners including the USAID Integrated Health Programme (IHP). “The documents which are Standard Treatment Guidelines, Annual Operational Plans 2021, Strategic Plan 2020-2024, Benefit Package, Operational Guidelines and Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with hospitals expected to lead the direction to which the scheme is following. “If you want to set up a state insurance scheme, it is mandatory and compulsory that you have these documents, because these are the documents that are going to guide your activities, your daily activities your actions, your decisions on every aspect of health insurance. “This documents are supported by HP Plus, USAID and many development partners, we were in Keffi, Nasarawa State for a week to brainstorm and develop this work plans,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .