 [FILES] Nigeria Army  The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, disclosed that after painstaking checks with security agencies, the state government confirmed that one Rufai Maikaji, who commanded over 100 fighters, was neutralised. “Maikaji and dozens of his fighters were neutralised during air interdictions around the fringes of Malul Forest in Igabi Local Council of Kaduna Central Senatorial District. “The aerial missions in which Maikaji and his gang were neutralised were conducted late February when he (Maikaji) and the bandits under his command, on sighting ground troops, escaped from Anaba village of Igabi where they killed some citizens, burnt houses and kidnapped some locals,” he said. Besides, he remarked that from further checks, Maikaji, described as a deadly bandit, and his group were confirmed to be responsible for the killings, kidnapping and cattle rustling in many communities in Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local councils. Maikaji is said to have begun his ignoble career as an errand boy to some deadly criminals in Igabi. He grew to become a household name in banditry. Aruwan Said: “The Kaduna State Government, military, police and all security agencies have assured residents of the communities that suffered the brutality of Maikaji that aggressive pursuit of other accomplices, who escaped the onslaught, is in full swing, and they will be caught sooner rather than later. “Governor Nasir el-Rufai praised the military for taking down the gang leader and his accomplices. He further assured them of the firm commitment of the government and people of Kaduna in the ongoing operations against the bandits throughout the state.” MEANWHILE, Benue State Security Council has declared total war on those that killed Dr. Terkula Suswam and all other bandits tormenting the people in the state. Briefing newsmen shortly after the council meeting yesterday, Governor Samuel Ortom promised N5 million to any one that would provide useful information leading to the arrest of the killers of Suswam. Also, as a stringent measure, the council announced a 6p.m. to 6a.m. curfew in Katsina-Ala, Ukum and Logo local councils. “We further banned the use of motorcycle otherwise called Okada, the old model Toyota Corolla car, which the assassins used in the attack of Suswam. “This ban of Okada includes all the three local councils in Sankera axis,” he added. Ortom urged all local council chairmen, traditional rulers as well as other critical stakeholders to avail useful information to security agents to bring all bandits to book.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .