 Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Hajia Sadiyya Umar Farouk (left); Representative of the First Lady, Dr. Hajo Sanni; Minister of Women Affairs, Dr. Pauline Tallen; Chairman Nigeria Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa; Founding Pastor, Family Worship Centre, Pastor Sarah Omakwu and Senator Khairat Gwadabe during an event to mark the 2021 International Women’s Day in Abuja…yesterday.                                                             PHOTO: PHILIP OJISUA  As the world marked International Women’s Day yesterday, the wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari called on leaders across the country to do more to free women from biases.
 
The call as the Federal Government described Nigerian women as the bedrock of society and pledged address actions against them.
 
While President Muhammadu Buhari praised women for their contributions and reeled out steps taken by his administration to empower them, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), in a separate statement, disclosed plans to tackle sexual and gender-based violence by establishing special courts and judicial divisions focused on sexual and gender-based violence.  BUT despite claims of achievement and plans for future actions, wife of the President, Aisha, says government has much more to do.
 
Aisha’s comment is contained in the goodwill message she sent to Nigerian women to commemorate IWD. The very frank Mrs. Buhari spoke after about five months of silence on national or personal issues. She had been silent since September last year shortly after the wedding of her daughter, Hanan.  Even on February 18, she remained silent as felicitations poured in to mark her 50th birthday, fueling speculations about her silence and absence from Aso Rock, the seat of power.
 
However, the silence ended on Monday when she posted a goodwill message on her Twitter handle, @Aishambuhari. The message, which she signed personally, was titled ‘Message of the First Lady, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Dr. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, on the occasion of the International Women’s Day 2021.’
  
She lamented continued abduction of women and girls by insurgents and bandits in the country and called on stakeholders to bring abductions to an end.
  
The message read: “Today marks the 2021 edition of International Women’s Day. The day offers yet another opportunity for humanity to review and reflect progress made on issues of women and girls.
  
“This year’s theme: ‘Women In Leadership: Achieving on Equal Future in a COVID-19 World’ is a strong call to appreciate the efforts of women and girls in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic.”
  
Observing that women and girls in Nigeria had continued to suffer abductions both in the hands of insurgents and bandits, she said: “As a mother, I share the sorrow and agony of the victims and their families. I am also not unaware of the impact that these abductions could have in reverting many successes we have hitherto achieved, especially in terms of girl-child education and early marriages.
  
“I call on all stakeholders to continue to exert their different levels of influence and bring these abductions to an end and to assure us that girls are safe anywhere they may find themselves.” ALSO, the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Mr. Edward Kallon, called on Federal Government to ensure more robust participation of women in politics and in political leadership.
 
Kallon made the call at a National Policy Dialogue in commemoration of the IWD, held yesterday in Abuja. Kallon observed that the socio-economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is borne largely by women and girls forcing many girls out of schools, escalation in gender-based violence and sexual exploitation as well as job losses, among others. For Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) and the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), government should carry out reforms to tackle discrimination against women.
 
In separate statements yesterday, President of PENGASSAN, Festus Osifo, and National president of NUPENG, Williams Akporeha, asked Nigerians to rise and challenge repressive systems and archaic laws, customs and practices that discriminate against women through gender-based prohibitions and limitations.
 
Osifo maintained that the reforms, mostly enshrined in national and state laws, are occasionally propagated by societal standards and expectations.
 
NUPENG boss, Akporeha, said it was high time Nigeria upheld women’s achievements, recognise challenges, and focus greater attention on women’s rights and gender equality.
  
He said: “To do this effect, all hands must be on deck to break down the deep-seated historic, cultural, and socio-economic barriers that prevent women from taking their seat at the decision-making table to make sure that resources and power are more equitably distributed, devoid of prejudice, bias or favouritism.” MORE messages came from Commonwealth Medical Association (CMA), Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), South South Zone F, and the Medical Women Association of Nigeria (MWAN), Edo State chapter. CMA, in its message, called for accelerated action to close the gender gap and support more women into leadership positions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .