Dr. Cyprian Nigeria’s first health worker to receive COVID-19 vaccine Dr Ngong Cyprian was the first person to be vaccinated as Nigeria on Friday began COVID-19 vaccination at the National Hospital in Abuja. Meet the first set of health care workers to receive the AstraZeneca vaccine also included Faith E. Eragbai, who is a nurse and doctors Nuru Joseph Thairu Yunusa. “It’s a momentous occasion today as we administer the first dose to one of our foremost frontline Medical Doctor in the fight against COVID-19,” the executive director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Faisal Shuaib, said. “The vaccines we are administering today are safe and effective.” Shuaib said at the second edition of State House weekly briefing at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Thursday said frontline workers would be the first to receive the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine. He said President Muhammad Buhari and Vice president Yemi Osinbajo will receive the COVID-19 vaccine after some of the frontline health workers get their vaccination on Friday. The chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 (PTF) and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha will also receive his first dose of the vaccine on the same day as the president. Nigeria took delivery of the first batch of Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine from the COVAX facility. Emirates Boeing 777-300ER aircraft carrying 3.94 million doses of the vaccine arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, at about 11.45 a.m. and was received by the Chairman of Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha. Mustapha disclosed that special centres would be opened for top government functionaries to take the jabs. About 2.3 million Nigerians have registered on the online registration portal for COVID-19 vaccinations, Shuaib on Wednesday. “In less than 24 hours, 2.3 million Nigerians have registered to take the vaccines and the numbers keep increasing,” Faisal Shuaib said during a Channels TV interview. Osindeinde Ademilayo Abodede, a healthcare worker, was the first to register for the vaccine, the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) said in a Tweet on Monday. Her appointment was scheduled for March 12 in Abuja.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .