Germany’s Max Walscheid will look to take advantage of his own opportunity to lead Team Qhubeka ASSOS’ (www.TeamQhubeka.com) challenge at Danilith Nokere Koerse (195km) in Belgium on Wednesday.  Walscheid (27) has been in strong form already this season as part of the team’s group of fast men, and will be licking his lips at getting the chance to fight for a result. He will have plenty of horsepower in support too, through the likes of South Africa’s Reinardt Janse van Rensburg, Denmark’s Lasse Norman Hansen and the piloting skills of Matteo Pelucchi. Three of the team’s younger men will be tasked with assisting throughout in the positioning the team at crucial points. Australia’s Dylan Sunderland and Denmark’s Andreas Stokbro continue to grow in these roles while it will be an exciting day for our Team Qhubeka Continental rider Antonio Puppio. The Italian from our development team gets his first stage of riding in our WorldTour outfit, slotting in for Harry Tanfield who recently took a knock to his ankle and continues to make a swift recovery from that. A big thank you to fan of the team David Buchan for announcing our roster through a special video release (https://bit.ly/3bSnJOR). Danilith Nokere Koerse line-up [squad numbers]: Max Walscheid I’m really focused on this race as it will be the first race in the year that I get the support from the team in aiming to score a result. I’m quite optimistic about my shape, I’ve prepared well in the races so far and I think that I’m coming with good legs to Belgium. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka ASSOS. Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About Team Qhubeka ASSOS:
Team Qhubeka ASSOS (TeamQhubeka.com) is a purpose-led, high-performance team, fighting to win on the world's biggest stage, to inspire hope and create opportunity. Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka ASSOS (formerly NTT Pro Cycling) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in six Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. There are 19 nationalities represented across our World Tour and continental feeder team rosters. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage, since the team's inception. We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 30 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .