 PHOTO: CNBC  The launch makes Nigeria the first country to commence work on the initiative, which draws inspiration from strength of collaboration between the private and public sector in addressing socio-economic challenges. AAP is a regional initiative of the Associations of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), which is being executed under its public good proagramme. The programme, unveiled in Lagos on Friday at an hybrid event, is structured to support collaboration with industry specialists across disciplines to draw up policy strategies and action plans to support the growth of the African economy. The strategy document aims at providing a holistic fresh national perspective on existing and emerging challenges, while seeking to influence and contribute to public interest activities. The objectives of the programme is to improve engagement with policy stakeholders and enhance effectiveness by increasing ownership of market developed insights, develop bespoke thought leadership, establish a joint platform for multi sector policy engagements and contribute to policy debate and influence policy design, implementation, monitoring and reviews,” the document said. The programmme is headed by Partner and Africa Tax Leader, PwC Nigeria, Taiwo Oyedele. There are five sub-committees on business/finance, capacity development/talent, corporate governance/sustainability, education/technology and SMEs. The subcommittees are chaired by experts in respective field. Oyedele said the committee, which is expected to oversee AAP in the next two years, will not be concerned about the challenges triggered by COVID-19, stressing that Nigeria has always faced challenges that require well-structured thoughts and actions to address. He accepted that the challenges are daunting, but noted that the “solutions to Africa’s problems do not have to be complicated” to achieve results and called on the team members to roll-up their sleeves in the coming months as the assignment is a call to duty. The financial expert was hopeful the COVID-19 vaccination programmed have marketed healing process but warned that “only robust policy actions would restore the economy, increase production and create the needed jobs. Country Head, ACCA Nigeria, Tom Isibor, said the organisation sought committed individuals to spearhead the programme as it was a demanding assignment and not “a talk show”.  He expressed the confidence that the initiative would come up with far-reaching solutions to the Nigeria challenges. The Regional Head for Africa, ACCA, Jane Uhadike, would prioritize issues relating to the five focal areas but would not be limited to the specified areas as it facilitates engagement on how to navigate through the current challenges. Other regional countries are expected to unveil their version of AAP in the coming months to scale up intellectual engagement on African challenges and hasten up action plans to savage the continent from failing.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .