Sanwo-Olu. Photo: TWITTER/JIDESANWOOLU Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has commended the promoters of Lekki Deep Sea Port project and Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited on the level of work done on the project, noting that it will boost the country’s commerce when completed. Sanwo-Olu gave this commendation during an official visit to the Lekki Deep Seaport site with members of his executive cabinet for an onsite assessment of the project. He noted that the promoters of the project, China Habour Engineering Company (CHEC) and Tolaram had demonstrated a high level of commitment and capability, especially by keeping to the construction schedule and timelines, bringing the construction to 47 per cent despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Managing Director, Lekki Port, Du Ruogang, assured the governor and his team of the company’s commitment to delivering the project as scheduled. “I am excited to lead the team to work on this project. Within the last three months, we have made a lot of progress not only in funding but also in construction work. This is a demonstration of China’s commitment to the development of Nigeria’s economy. We are trying our best to start commercial operations before the end of 2022,” Du said. Chairman of Lekki Port, Mr Biodun Dabiri, thanked the governor for his invaluable support and assistance towards the actualisation of the project since he took over the leadership in the state. Dabiri also reminded the governor of the urgent need to help improve the road infrastructure, especially the main access road to the port from Eleko junction, which is key not only for Lekki port but also other projects and development in the axis. “From what I can see, in the next four to five years, the economy of the Lekki environs would be worth $25 billion, which translates to N10 trillion – an investment amount almost similar to the whole budget of Nigeria.
“I can tell you that if we focus on this axis alone, the ranking of Lagos as one of the largest economies in Africa would be better. We could move from the fourth to third, second and eventually number one,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .