Sani calls Nigeria big graveyard Troops of 28 Task Force Brigade, Operation Lafiya Dole, have killed 48 terrorists in the Chibok/Damboa axis of Borno State. The soldiers also rescued eight abductees in the Askira-Chibok main supply routes of Boko Haram terrorists. In a statement yesterday in Maiduguri, the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, disclosed that the troops ambushed and overwhelmed the criminals with aggressive firepower. He said that the troops neutralised nine insurgents in the process, while several others escaped with gunshot wounds into Sambisa Forest. According to him, the troops also recovered seven AK-47 rifles and rescued three abductees of Boko Haram. Similarly, the troops of 28 Task Force Brigade in Askira, Borno State, also laid another ambush along the Askira/Chibok supply route and killed 39 terrorists. On how the abductees were rescued, he said: “In the course of the encounter, our troops successfully rescued eight kidnap victims. Unfortunately, one of the victims sustained an injury in the leg, while in captivity of insurgents.” While applauding the troops’ efforts, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, said: “You’re to remain dogged and maintain the offensive posture in your operations until the area is rid of all remnants of terrorists.” FOREMOST activist, Senator Shehu Sani, has berated the Federal Government for the deteriorating security in the nation, adding that Nigeria is a big graveyard of ceaseless mourning and perpetual injustice. Everything is wrong with Nigeria, politically economically and in all spheres of the nation’s existence, he said, adding that a country of injustice “cannot attain greatness.” Speaking on Saturday at Global Impact Award night in Abuja, he described Nigeria as one of the most dangerous nations to live in. “Students are in the hands of bandits in Kaduna and, yet, both the state and federal governments have shown no interest in their safe release,” he said. Sani, who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate, regretted that bandits had become a state within the state, as they terrorise, kill and take territories. Despite billions of naira budgeted for security every year, the senator regretted that there was no security respite, calling on the authorities to wake up and do the needful. According to Sani, insecurity is threatening Nigeria’s common existence, warning that the seeming surrender of judicial and executive powers to the presidency would create a dictatorship. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .