Ishaku restates commitment to end insecurity in Taraba 
Five persons have been confirmed killed by gunmen during an attack on Katarma village in Chikun Local Council of Kaduna State. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the incident, added that one person was injured during the attack. He also disclosed that decomposing corpse of a man, who had been missing since March 24, 2021, was discovered by the troops in Zangon-Kataf Local Council. Aruwan said: “Security agencies have reported that armed bandits attacked Katarma village in Chikun. According to the report, five persons were killed in the attack, listed as Samson Danladi, Luka Gajere, Amos Ali, Titus Baba and Damali Musa. One person was injured, and is receiving treatment in a neighbouring state. “In another incident, troops of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) reported a clash between some youths in Atuku village, Jema’a Local Council, leading to a deep gash on the forehead of one Afiniki Thomas. One of the assailants, Sani Safiyanu, was arrested for profiling and investigation. The injured was rushed to hospital for treatment.” The commissioner said, Governor Nasir el-Rufai, while praying for the repose of those slain and sending condolences to their families, has tasked security agencies to conduct a thorough investigation into the clash in Atulu village in Jema’a. GOVERNOR Darius Ishaku of Taraba State has reiterated his administration’s determination to end security challenges in the state. The administration, according to him, is working with security agencies to end kidnapping and killing of innocent people by criminals. He, however, solicited the support of all men and women of goodwill towards the success of the efforts. Ishaku, who made this known, yesterday, while felicitating with the Christian faithful on the Resurrection of Christ Jesus, in Jalingo, beckoned Tarabans of all ethnic, political and religious affiliations to forget their differences and work together in the interest of peace and development. While calling for unity and vigilance against insecurity, he expressed happiness that peace was gradually returning to the trouble spots in the state and assured that everything would be done to ensure that the achievement is sustained. He used the occasion to enjoin Christians in the state not to allow the lessons of Easter elude them, as they mark the event. Reminding them of the significance of Easter in the Christian calendar, he described it as the period the Son of God demonstrated the greatest act of compassion, humility and sacrifice for mankind to have salvation. Governor Ishaku urged Christians to constantly remind themselves of the virtues of peace and forgiveness, which Christ amply demonstrated throughout his trial and crucifixion, and to allow the virtues to reflect in their conduct and relationship with humanity in general. The governor urged them to avail themselves of the opportunity to take the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) vaccination, which, according to him, is available in the state. Aligning with the governor, Speaker of the House of Assembly, Joseph Kunini, urged the people to put aside their differences and support Ishaku’s administration to catapult the state to the heights.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .