The widower and children of Mrs. Salome Acheju Abuh, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Women Leader, who was burnt alive in her home by suspected thugs during November 16, 2019, Kogi governorship election, are crying for justice over the death of their wife and mother. The deceased’s husband, Elder Simeon Abuh, in the company of his four children at a press conference in Abuja last Friday, appealed to the Federal Government, international bodies, and other organisations to treat the family’s “homelessness” as an emergency by facilitating their resettlement and reconstruction of their burnt houses. According to him, his fully furnished five-bedroom, four-bedroom, and two-bedroom apartments and other properties were razed in his Ochadamu country home during the attack, and that life has never been the same for the family ever since. He said: “The continuous living in the internally displaced persons (IDP) situation of my people and others affected in Ochadamu community and silence of the powers that be, since the past two years, remains worrisome. “I, therefore, demand that President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor of Kogi State, H. E. Yahaya Bello, and APC as a party, whose thugs/boys did this to us, should treat our homelessness as an emergency and rebuild our burnt houses.” He explained that houses belonging to PDP leaders in the place were also burnt and looted and that he would want the victims to also be compensated. According to him, neither the government nor any political party, including the PDP for which cause his wife paid the supreme price, had offered any form of support to the family since the incident. He appealed to President Buhari to order “sincere and comprehensive investigations with a view to ensuring that justice prevails, no matter who may be involved.” He also called for the immortalisation of his wife as a ‘political celebrity,’ who paid the supreme price for the sustenance of democracy in Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .