 Niger State Government. PHOTO: Twitter  Boko Haram terrorists have hoisted its flag in Kaure village, Shiroro Local Council of Niger State, says the Governor, Abubakar Bello.
Speaking in Minna yesterday when he visited the Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) Camp at the IBB Primary School near the Emir of Minna’s palace, he also said the terrorists forcefully took over the wives of some of the villagers and allocated them to themselves. The primary school was hurriedly turned to IDP camp following the sacking of nearly 5,000 villagers from their ancestral homes in Shiroro and Munya local councils by bandits who raided the towns over the weekend. He said: “I am confirming that there are Boko Haram elements here in Niger State. Here in Kaure, I am confirming that they have hoisted their flags here. Their wives have been seized from them and forcefully attached to Boko Haram members. “I just heard that they have placed their flags at Kaure, meaning they have taken over the territory. This is what I have been engaging the Federal Government on. Unfortunately, it has now got to this level. If care is not taken, even Abuja is not safe.” Bello claimed that the Boko Haram elements were trying to use the area as their home, just as they did in Sambisa, warning out that while Sambisa is several kilometres from Abuja, Kaure is just 200  kilometres from Abuja. “So nobody is safe anymore, not even those in Abuja.” AREWA Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) has expressed concerns over the spate of abduction in Kaduna, describing it as a situation that must not be allowed to continue. The President of AYCF, Alhaji Yerima Shettima, stated this while reacting to the recurring abductions in the state, saying that the current situation required holistic approach by all and sundry to bring the ugly situation to an end. He lamented: “It is very worrisome the rate at which kidnapping for ransom, particularly of students, has increased lately in Kaduna State. “You would recall that after a security report was presented to the Kaduna government and the governor reiterated his stance to deal with bandits decisively and not negotiate with them.” He called on government at all levels to improve on their security network to secure life and property.  Shettima also called on religious and traditional leaders to join forces with government and spirited individuals to bring insecurity to an end.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .