Explore Maldives: 5 Fun Things You Can Do Officially known as the Republic of Maldives, Maldives is a small archipelagic state in South Asia, situated in the Arabian Sea of the Indian Ocean. It lies southwest of Sri Lanka and India, about 700 kilometres from the Asian continent’s mainland. The Maldives is made up of 1192 islands and each island boasts of different scenic views, marine life, rituals, and much more. You can reach these islands by taking boats, ferries, yachts, and seaplanes. December to April is considered the best time to visit the Maldives as it experiences a dry season during these months. During your visit to the Maldives at this time, you can enjoy the bright sun, calm waters and clear sky making it favourable for your trip. Visit The Glowing Beach 
The Maldives Glowing Beach is situated at the Mudhdhoo Island, also known as the Vaadhoo Island in Raa Atoll. Beach is one of the most visited tourist destinations in these islands, mostly known for its phenomenal fluorescent, glowing waves. This natural phenomenon occurs due to the presence of millions of marine microbes known as phytoplankton in the water. The microscopic planktons emit a bright vibrant blue light in the water which creates an ethereal effect best experienced after sunset. The best time to visit Glowing Beach is between June and October when the sea remains comparatively warmer due to the summer season. A romantic dinner on the beach
Maldives offers various locations for a private, romantic candlelight dinner. You can enjoy a charming and elegant private barbeque with your partner on a quiet, calm beach. Have some wine while gazing at the stars with your partner and spend some quality time together. Stroll at Male Fish Market
The marketplace offers you freshly laid tuna and other fishes of different sizes. You can freely stroll the market and look at different types of fishes. Enjoy some water activities
A trip to the Maldives is incomplete without a chilling ride on the jet ski. Here, you can rent a jet ski ride and whiz through the azure Indian Ocean. Step up on the surfboard and explore the surroundings while managing the balance and rowing through the waves. Pump up your adrenaline with flyboarding
The flyboard is like a hydro-flighting device that will take you 15 m high in the air while you look over the blue ocean. Scuba Diving is one of the most popular activities to do in the Maldives as it lets you explore the best of marine life and beautiful corals. Party 
On the shore of the beach, under the starlit sky in the Maldives, enjoy the evening at the beach party where you are sure to have the fun of a lifetime and also meet interesting people from around the world. You can also enjoy a jazz night at some resort where the music from the live bands blends perfectly with the hues of the sunset. Taste the Gulha
Gulha is the national dish of the Maldives, a deep-fried pastry ball filled with smoked fish such as Maldive fish or tuna, along with desiccated coconut and onions. The snacks are usually sold at small cafés known as hotels, or in shops scattered throughout the island.