 TOPSHOT – Greece’s Stefanos Tsitsipas poses for pictures with the trophy after winning the final singles match against Russia’s Andrey Rublev on day nine of the Monte-Carlo ATP Masters Series tennis tournament in Monaco on April 18, 2021. (Photo by Valery HACHE / AFP)  The tournament witnessed many stunning upsets. Britain’s Dan Evans defeated the top-seeded Novak Djokovic in the third round, just as Rublev halted Rafael Nadal’s quest for a 12th title in Monte Carlo. The second-seeded Daniil Medvedev of Russia dropped out of the event, after testing positive for COVID-19. Tsitsipas won the toss and elected to serve. He took the opening point and followed with an ace on his way to winning the first game of the match. Rublev, however, lost the opening point in his first time at serving and conceded a break. Tsitsipas extended the lead to 3-0 after 10 minutes of play. The Russian struggled to take his serve in the fourth game. Although Tsitsipas won the fifth game at love, his opponent was taken to deuce before holding for 4-2. Serving with new balls, Rublev powered to take the eighth game. Serving for the set, Tsitsipas prevailed in a 25-shot rally to lead 30-0 and he took the set 6/3 in 33 minutes. There was a hope of resurgence for the Russian when he took the first game of the second set and Tsitsipas lost the opening point of the second game, but a missed overhead smash by Rublev allowed the Greek to level one game apiece. In the third game, Rublev led 40-15 with his signature powerful forehand. However, a Tsitsipas drop shot led to deuce and the break of serve that was consolidated to 3-1. Each player held serve to 4-3, at which point a few drops of rain threatened to halt the onslaught. Although Tsitsipas committed his only double fault, he held serve to lead 5-3. Serving to save the match, Rublev lost the first two points and missed a volley to face match-point, while his crosscourt backhand shot sailed over the sideline to end the 73-minute match. The fourth-seeded Tsitsipas became the first Greek player to win the Masters title, after losing in two previous finals. He described the tournament as “the best week of my life.” As a message for the future, he scribbled on the screen: “It all starts from Monte Carlo.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .