 From right:  Alhaji Luqman Balogun, Alhaji Tajudeen Uzamot, Dr Abdullahi Shuaib, a beneficiary, Sheikh AbdulMajeed Ayinla, Sheikh Dhikrullah Shafi’I,  and another guest.  The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Foundation, Dr. Abdullahi Shuaib made the disclosure during the disbursement exercise held at Beleke Memorial Mosque, Surulere, Lagos, in strict compliance with COVID-19 regulations. While welcoming the guests, which included Muslim scholars, Imams and heads of Islamic organisations, Dr Shuaib said, “Today, the Foundation has intervened in the lives of no fewer than 85 beneficiaries with the disbursement of 6 million naira.”
Scholars during presentation to beneficiary, Oyenikun Yusuf (m) He revealed that more than 70 percent of the disbursement went for education support of students in all the higher institution in Lagos state, adding that about 22 percent went for empowerment support while the remaining went for health intervention. He noted that the number of invited beneficiaries and other attendees were limited due to NCDC COVID-19 protocol and regulations, which stipulates no gathering of more than 50 persons in an enclosed space. Dr. Shuaib said, “At this event today, we couldn’t invite all the beneficiaries because we are observing COVID-19 regulations. We only have some of them who would go home with industrial machines, laptops, among other items. Those who couldn’t make it would have started receiving alert from the Foundation. We hope that when the pandemic subsides, we will target more people.” Earlier, the Grand Mufti of the Conference of Islamic Organisations (CIO), Sheikh Dhikrullahi Shafi’i said Zakat becomes compulsory for any sane, adult Muslim who has possessed the minimum amount of wealth (also known as Nisab) for one year. Shafii, who spoke on the institution of Zakat, stated that Zakat, the third pillar of Islam, is an amaanah (trust) from Allah bestowed upon the donors (who have understood that they have to pay Zakat when it’s due), administrators (who distribute the proceeds) to the last group, known as the beneficiaries. The revered Islamic scholar therefore urged the beneficiaries to utilize the Zakat proceeds collected properly, adding that, “When it’s spent for the right course and prudently, it will multiply and the beneficiaries today can become donors in the future. So, don’t spend the Zakat proceeds lavishly or on frivolities.”  He said. The beneficiaries extolled Jaiz Foundation for putting smiles in their lives and others, going by the yearly Zakat disbursement, which runs into hundreds of millions of naira. A fashion designer, Adekanbi Rafiat who got an industrial sewing machine was full of praises, as she showered encomiums on the Foundation for assisting her with the item. According to her, “I got to know about the activities of the Foundation through the Chief Imam of our mosque. He collected my name and assisted with the processing. He later told me that I have been shortlisted. I was very happy when I got the news. “I am very grateful to the Foundation for giving me an industrial sewing machine. It will go a long way in assisting my work, which I began 2 years ago.” Also, Oyenikun Yusuf, a 400 Level student of Marine Sciences at the University of Lagos was given a brand new laptop, which he said would be productive in the course of his assignment. “I really can’t express the feeling right now, but this gesture from Jaiz Foundation is something that really makes me happy. As a student, I need laptop to do a lot of assignments. It’s basically part of requirements for me to achieve great things in life. It will also assist me in doing better in my studies and with good results, I will be respected by my peers,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .