Nigerian Senate President Ahmed Ibrahimm Lawan PHOTO: Twitter President Muhammadu Buhari is to present a supplementary budget before the National Assembly anytime soon to address the nation’s lingering security challenges. The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, who made the disclosure while fielding questions from reporters at the weekend in Gashua, Yobe State, noted that more funds were needed to tackle insecurity in Nigeria. He assured the citizenry that the two legislative chambers would ensure that normalcy returned to states grappling with terrorism, kidnapping, banditry and militancy. Lawan observed that the new service chiefs had adopted fresh strategies that needed funding for proper execution. The Yobe lawmaker reiterated the resolve of the federal legislature to work closely with the President to appropriate more money to security agencies to restore orderliness across the federation. “The proposed new supplementary budget of Mr. President will address Boko Haram terrorism, banditry, militancy and kidnappings in the various affected states of our country,” he clarified. On the incessant attacks and killings, Lawan stated: “We believe that we need to have security before life can be better. “You can’t do anything or attract foreign direct investments. Even farming becomes impossible in some states because of the level of insecurity. So, security is key.” The Senate President recalled that Buhari had given the security heads six weeks to restore order in rural areas, especially with the commencement of the rainy season by June this year. He warned that without security in the hinterland, famine could be looming in the absence of farming activities. Lawan added that food security would be threatened and the security situation compounded. Underscoring the importance of unity in national development, the nation’s number three citizen submitted: “Those clamouring for the break-up of the country are in the vast minority.” According to him, those behind the agitations are disgruntled elite bent on satisfying their self-serving interests at the detriment of the majority of Nigerians. He said the unity of Nigeria would remain the cardinal focus of the National Assembly by ensuring equity, justice and fairness to every part of the country. “What we need to emphasize always is equity, justice and fairness to all citizens of Nigeria. This is one way to go and the only way to ensure that everybody feels belonged,” he added. Lawan dismissed the speculations that a certain part was more favoured with federal projects. He continued: “I believe that we should be fair to Nigerians, particularly those ordinary people. What they need is good leadership. “We must give them leadership, a fair leadership. If we have any issue, we should be able to discuss it. The people should not be neglected when they complain of bad governance. “So, I believe the unity of this country is non-negotiable.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .