• Bandits Murder Eight Farmers In Nasarawa Suspected Fulani herdsmen, yesterday, allegedly attacked Yogbo - Mbayev Council Ward of Guma Local Council of Benue State,  killing 17 persons. Several others were injured. A witness, who pleaded anonymity, said the attackers invaded the communities at about 2.00 a.m. and killed nine persons at Ajimaku, one at Ayeri, and four others at Tse Gborigyo, near Udei, all in Guma Local Council. But, former Speaker of Benue State House of Assembly, Makurdi, David Iorhemba, whose village was also attacked, attributed the upsurge to relaxation of soldiers posted there to maintain law and order. He advocated massive redeployment of operatives of Operation Whirl Stroke (OWPs), due to their familiarity with the people. He lauded Governor Samuel Ortom for footing victims’ medical bills. Also, suspected Fulani bandits, yesterday, killed eight persons, including women and children, in an early morning attack in Ajimaka, a Tiv settlement in Doma Local Council of Nasarawa State. Scores were injured. The bandits, carrying sophisticated weapons, invaded the community at about 2.00 a.m., shooting sporadically and chanting war songs. The President, Tiv Development Association (TIDA) in Nasarawa State, Peter Ahemba, who confirmed the incident, while speaking with journalists in Lafia, described it as “evil and unfortunate.” He regretted that the attacks on Tiv people, particularly those living at border communities between Benue and Nasarawa states, had become a recurrent decimal, despite efforts by Nasarawa State governor, Abdullahi Sule and his Benue State counterpart, Dr. Samuel Ortom to encourage residents to live in peace. “Each time Fulani herdsmen have issues relating to the implementation of the anti-open grazing law by Benue State government, they would attack Tiv people in Nasarawa State. “We are indigenous Tiv people of Nasarawa. We are peace-loving people and Fulani herdsmen must stop attacking our people, “ Ahemba lamented. He said the ugly development has led to the displacement of thousands of Tiv farmers in the area, regretting that the incident was happening at a critical planting period. He acknowledged Nasarawa State government’s efforts at ensuring peace and security at the border areas. He appealed to the government to deploy security operatives to the troubled area to forestall further breakdown of law and order and called on Tiv people to remain calm and avoid taking laws into their hands, as the government was taking measures to restore normalcy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .