 Health Insurance  Speaking at the fourth Annual Amuwo Odofin Maternal and Child Centre (AOMCC) stakeholders meeting recently in Lagos, the gynaecologist noted that the government came up with the scheme to take care of the health challenges of the vulnerable. According to him, “out of pocket spending of Lagosians is quite high which has overburdened many people, so government came up with this initiative. If you do an N40,000 health insurance a year, for instance, it can take care of one’s basic care. It covers the child, the wife can also have access to antenatal care and delivery. It also covers maternal services, child emergency services, newborn baby resuscitation, and these are the places where we are not doing well.” AOMCC Chief Medical Director,  Dr. Oladapo Soyinka said the hospital had increased its patient satisfaction benchmark to 90 per cent in 2021 from 80 per cent in 2020. He commended the Lagos State government for helping it achieve the landmark by improving the hospital’s manpower with additional doctors, nurses and laboratory scientists. The CMD noted that the hospital was already working on its space constraints and had collaborated with a nongovernmental organisation to have additional buildings. He also said that the hospital has been able to achieve zero mortality out of a total of 493 birth deliveries it recorded between January and March this year. According to him, at the beginning of the year, we set a vision of “No Mortality.”We decided that we will have zero tolerance for maternal mortality; any case that comes, we will give it our best shot,” he said. Soyinka said to achieve that, the hospital’s staff were motivated by receiving rewards for every month that there was no record of maternal mortality. He said apart from staff motivation, another major reason for the achievement of zero maternal mortality was the synergy between the hospital and its partners.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .