Most Rev. Emmanuel Chukwuma, Archbishop, Ecclesiastical Province of Enugu, Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion The Archbishop, Province of Enugu Anglican Communion, Most Rev. Emmanuel Chukwuma, has tasked Nigerian leaders to emulate the sacrificial life of Jesus Christ to save the country from total collapse. Chukwuma said leaders of the country must be ready to pay a price in their leadership position to save Nigeria, which he said, was in deep trouble. Delivering his Easter message, yesterday, Chukwuma expressed displeasure that President Muhammadu Buhari left the shores of the country to the United Kingdom (UK) for medical treatment when he could not keep the health sector running in the country. He said: “Christ resurrection brings to mankind a new hope of life and Christians are advised to live a new life so that we can appreciate the death and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. “The resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ also exposes the injustice, betrayal and lack of love. So, it is therefore necessary that the sacrificial life lived by Jesus Christ should be emulated by our leaders. Our leaders should live a life of sacrifice, selfless sacrifice so that they can be able to meet up with the yearnings of the people they are representing. Christ came to represent us on the cross as sinners and fully paid the price for it. Our leaders should therefore be ready to pay the price in their leadership position to save Nigeria.” “It is sad that even as we are talking right now at this Easter season, the doctors are on strike while our President is out of the country for medical checkup abroad. That does not show a good example and sacrifice. It is sad and very unfortunate and we advise the President to come back and fix the hospitals in Nigeria and also make sure the doctors are paid. Because this is not right, this is part of corruption. “It is also necessary that if Christ had died to secure our lives, the security of Nigeria must be intensified. Those who are in authority must make sure they secure the lives of Nigerians from these incessant killings everywhere. So, Nigerians are therefore asked to intensify their prayers for security, particularly as regards the weapon-carrying Fulani herdsmen whom we have asked the government to declare as terrorists and deal with.” He prayed for Nigeria to receive peace, joy and also reconciliation, which God Has brought to man through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. For Christians, he charged them to use the Easter time to show love and concern for one another, stop deceiving themselves and stop denying God in their faith, adding: “Our faith must be confirmed by our lives. Our lives must show a real life of righteousness. Christ came to die for our sin and sin must die in our lives. Christians must project Christianity in a positive way. We should be ready to make more sacrifices to one another and everybody should be ready to forgive one another.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .