Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi Gov. Atiku Bagudu says his administration has secured a 70 million dollar World Bank Grant to strengthen Adolescent Girl-Child Education. Bagudu disclosed this at the 5th Kebbi State Women Ramadan Lecture Series held in Birnin Kebbi, the state capital on Saturday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Theme of the lecture is: “The Fundamental Role of Women in Islam.” Bagudu said with the grant, women in the state, especially adolescent girls would be taught more skills, coupled with both formal and non-formal education. The governor also stated that such skills would enable the girls to be more productive and self reliant, even in their matrimonial homes. Bagudu said: “The good news is that the more we invest in women, the more prosperous our society will be. “The grant will complement the various programmes and policies aimed at making life better for the girl-child, women and other vulnerable groups in the state.” Bagudu stressed the need to legislate and appropriate more money for Girl-Child Education and other related welfare schemes. The governor noted that women must be supported to play their societal roles, just as it has been ordained by the Almighty Allah. He observed that women play key roles in the routine running of the society, apart from their respective family responsibilities. “If we religiously heed to the various Islamic injunctions as regards our entire lives and family bonds, we will live in a healthier, safe and peaceful society. “Our various families, diligently anchored by our wives, mothers and daughters will be able to surmount all the formidable challenges and survive any economic turbulence,” he added. Bagudu commended the convener of the lectures and First Lady, Dr Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu and the other active collaborators for making the event a huge success. On her part, Shinkafi-Bagudu said successes of Ramadan period depends on women contribution not just to their homes but to the society at large. The governor’s wife extolled the efforts of husbands, fathers, sons and brothers for supporting the family. “We must also appreciate the tireless efforts of our husbands, fathers, sons and brothers, especially during this month where we seek Allah’s blessings and reward. “As Muslim women, we contribute a lot to not just our homes but to the society at large and a huge part of the successes of Ramadan period depends on us. “That means, we can do more to ease the month for many who may not be as blessed as some,” she said. Earlier, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajiya Zara’u Wali commended the governor’s wife for organising the lecture. She also commended Gov. Bagudu for giving favourable and enabling environment for women in Kebbi State to achieve their potentialities. Speakers who spoke at the event included; Sheikh Abubakar Giro, represented by Dr Attahiru Ahmad-Sifawa, Dr Isma’il Mufti-Menk who joined virtually with Sister Na’ima Robert and Dr Jabir Maihula. Tooic discussed include Innovative Islamic Ways of Management in COVID-19 Era, Family Obligation of Wives in Times of Economic Hardship and Curbing Gender Based Violence. The lecture was attended by former Speaker House of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole and Speaker, Kebbi State House of Assembly, Samaila AbdulMuminu-Kamba and other top government officials.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .