Nigeria Police. Photo: TWITTER/GOVWIKE In a bid to reduce police brutality and encourage good officers among the force to keep up the good work, Citizen’s Gavel, through its ‘Askari Wey Correct Award’ has unfolded plans to reward four Police Officers for their diligence. The officers include CSP Julius Adedeji, a staff officer in the office of the Inspector General of Police, DSP Iheanacho Ifeanyi Omuta assigned to the Force Intelligence Response Team, Lagos State; ACP Makus Ishaku Bashiran, head of the Complaint Response Unit of the Nigeria Police Force, and ASP Saviour Bassey, a finance officer in the office of the IGP. A statement signed by the Communications Associate Citizen’s Gavel Ms Taiwo Makanjuola said the police officers were unanimously nominated by the members of the public as they have consistently shown kindness to citizens, put their lives on the line and have upheld the oaths of their profession with utmost diligence. “Citizens’ Gavel, we are a not-for-profit, human rights-focused organization with the aim of protecting fundamental human rights and providing legal assistance for indigent persons; we have played a major role in reducing police brutality in Nigeria through advocacy like EndSARS (and the passage of the new Police Act.). “Much too often, innocent citizens striving to make ends meet are accosted daily by rogue police officers who commit different human rights violations. However, amidst these recalcitrant officers are the “good guys”; patriotic officers who have consistently shown kindness to citizens, put their lives on the line, and have upheld the oaths of their profession with discipline and utmost diligence. “A bid to encourage and ensure that the good officers keep up the good work within the force births the Askari Wey Correct Awards which is an initiative that seeks to motivate officers who have shown exemplary behaviour in the line of duty while also believing that the same recognition will spur other officers to exemplify good behaviour in furtherance of their public duty, regardless of location knowing that citizens are watching. “The Askari Wey Correct Awards is a citizens led approach championed by Citizens’ Gavel and achieved through a public nomination and fact-finding background check. Officers who have exhibited professional conduct worthy of praise and recognition in the eyes of the public are thereafter rewarded along with an excellence award.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .