- India's record-breaking surge - The brutal new outbreak in India sets new records with more than 2,000 deaths in 24 hours as hospitals in New Delhi run perilously low on oxygen. The second wave, blamed on lax government rules and a new "double mutant" virus variant, has added almost 3.5 million new cases this month alone. - 200 million US doses -
The United States will hit President Joe Biden's target of administering 200 million doses of coronavirus vaccines within his first 100 days in office by the end of this week, the White House says. - Tensions in Germany -
Police clash with thousands of protesters in Berlin as the German parliament passes a legal amendment to give Angela Merkel's government power to impose tougher measures to curb the pandemic. - One million Iraq cases -
Covid-19 infections in Iraq surpass one million, the health ministry says, a figure unmatched in the Arab world, in a country that has long faced medical shortages. - Idlib jabs arrive -
The first batch of Covid-19 vaccines arrives in Idlib in war-torn northwestern Syria, where millions live in dire humanitarian conditions. - Opening in Denmark -
Denmark's bars, cafes, restaurants, and museums reopen, and fans are to be allowed to return to the stands to watch the final match of the first division football league, as the spread of Covid-19 is deemed stable. - Easing curbs -
France plans to lift travel restrictions and ease a nationwide curfew on May 2 on expectations that daily Covid-19 cases will soon start to fall, a source close to the presidency says. And Finland could start lifting curbs on businesses and youth activities from next week, but borders will stay closed to tourists for at least the coming months, ministers say after agreeing on an "exit plan". - Autumn herd immunity -
Russian President Vladimir Putin says in his state of the union address that the country is aiming for herd immunity by the autumn and hails the homegrown development of three vaccines. - $47.7 billion airline hit -
Airlines are forecast to lose $47.7 billion (39.7 billion euros) this year -- worse than previously forecast, the International Air Transport Association says as the sector struggles to recover from the pandemic. - More than three million dead -
At least 3,046,134 people have died of Covid-19 around the world since the outbreak emerged in China in December 2019, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP. The United States is the worst-affected country with 568,470 deaths, followed by Brazil with 378,003, Mexico with 213,048, India with 182,553, and Britain with 127,307.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .