 Ikoyi Club 1938 Golf Section Captain, Dr. M.I. Okoro (left), wife of the King of Ikate Kingdom, Queen Sekinat Elegushi, winner of the maiden Oba Elegushi Golf Championship, Andrew Egbakhumeh and Elegushi of Ikate Kingdom, Oba Saheed Elegushi, at the end of a tournament to mark the monarch’s 45th birthday.  In the ladies category, Princess Oghene with a score of 96 net took the crown, while Selin Hainsworth was the runner up.
Chief Tony Prest won the nearest to the pin hole, just as Karuike Harrison won the men’s longest drive with Evelyn Oyome taking the ladies longest drive title. The competition, which was part of the 45th birthday celebration of Oba Saheed Ademola Elegushi of Ikateland and environs, saw the cream of Lagos golfers competing for honours in the event. The royal father performed the ceremonial tee off at the Golf Section of Ikoyi Club 1938, where he exhibited another part of him as a sportsman. 120 golfers, including seven professionals, took to the course.
Explaining the inclusion of a golf tournament as part of activities marking his birthday, Oba Elegushi said, “As we all know, in the past one year, many people have died. This is my own little way of appreciating God. I am among the lucky ones to be alive. “As a golfer, I have been looking forward to hosting a competition in my name and this time, I decided I want to give it a shot and everybody turned out to support me.” He promised that it would not be a one off tournament, adding, “next year, we will take it to another level.” The Oba said he took golf as a hobby because “golf teaches me about life. As a golfer, you can manage any situation you find yourself in.” Also speaking on the competition, chairman of the golf tournament and a friend of the Oba, Abisoye Fagade, applauded the event, as ‘well organised,’ saying it was befitting of the Oba to have a tournament of this magnitude in his name. “Over 200 golfers wanted to play but we had to limit the number to 120 because we needed a number we could take care of.”
 Fadage, who also competed in the tournament, observed, “all the golfers enjoyed themselves, adding, “We can’t wait to have the next edition.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .