 [File] Buhari and Saraki  “This matter has gone beyond what the government can handle alone,” Saraki said, noting that the Nigerian government is “overwhelmed by the situation.” “The President should know that calling for help in our present situation is not a sign of weakness,” Saraki said. Saraki was reacting to the multiple attacks, killings and kidnaps that happened with 24 hours news cycle between Sunday and Monday. He said it is “one of the saddest days in recent memory.” All in one day, from Anambra State to Kaduna, Yobe, Niger, and Lagos States, critical insecurity issues were reported. On Tuesday, hoodlums attacked a federal high court in court, torching the library and security sections of the court. On Sunday Boko Haram hoist up its flag in Niger State. The state governor expressed how helpless the government has become, and how thousands of people have been displaced in his state. Also on Sunday, Boko Haram attacked Mainok, a town on the Damaturu-Maiduguri highway. More than 30 soldiers were killed in the attack, Reuters reported. About nine people were also killed by hoodlums that invaded Ukpomachi Village, Awkuzu in Oyi LGA of Anambra State. On Monday, two students who were among those kidnapped from Greenfield University, Kaduna State, were killed by their abductors. An unspecified number of students were also abducted from the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi, in Benue State. At Iyana Iba/Alaba Rago and Ojo areas of Lagos state commercial motorcycle riders and members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) (Okada) also clashed. Saraki said the president needs to bring together all former Presidents and heads of state, serving and former chief justices, serving and former presiding officers of the National Assembly, serving and former heads of security agencies, traditional rulers with relevant experience, leaders of the private sector, development partners, friends of Nigeria in the international community and all others who can help in finding solutions to the problem at hand.” “The meeting must hold expeditiously and must be followed by immediate actions,” he added. “At this point, words and press statements are not enough. We need to see action. I appeal to Mr President to take the bull by the horn.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .