 [FILES] Supporters of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB)  / AFP PHOTO / STEFAN HEUNIS  Its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, in a statement yesterday, dismissed the claim as propaganda by the “Nigerian security agencies to blackmail and dent the global reputation of the security network.” He said: “IPOB, ably led by our great and indomitable leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has no plans to harm anybody and wish to put banks in Biafraland on notice of a wicked plot by the Nigerian security agencies to harm them.” While assuring financial institutions in the zone of their safety, Powerful cautioned security agents against “spreading such propaganda.” The statement read in part: “Our intelligence unit has uncovered a fabricated propaganda by the Department of State Services (DSS) that the Eastern Security Network (ESN) is planning to attack banks in Biafraland to acquire money for purchase of arms.” “DSS is propelling this wicked propaganda all in a bid to blackmail ESN and IPOB, as well as and dent our global reputation. We, therefore, wish to debunk this falsehood and blatant lie from the pit of hell.” “IPOB and ESN are not criminals and we have no plans or agenda to touch any institution, particularly banks. We are not looking for money to buy arms because we produce our arms locally and cannot attack or kidnap anybody for ransom. “We don’t inflict pains on the people we are fighting for their freedoms. DSS should engage their time on something more meaningful. This poor script cannot fly.” The document added that IPOB and ESN were refined groups that could not indulge in armed robbery, insisting that the security network  had “never left its mandate – which is to defend Biafraland against Fulani terrorists and killer herdsmen.” The group advised the banks in the South East to be “wary of DSS because it is possible they are planning to sponsor attacks on banks and turn around, as usual, to blame them on IPOB and ESN operatives.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .