Amstel Gold Race is the first of three Ardennes Classics and the UCI World Tour ranked classic will take place on Sunday in South Limburg, Netherlands.  The 55th edition of the Amstel Gold Race is set to be a unique edition of the race with a revised route, due to Covid-19 restrictions, consisting of a 16,9km lap around Valkenburg that will be completed 12 times before one final circuit of 15,9km brings the race to its conclusion, for a total of 216km. The climbs of Geulhemmerberg, Bemmelberg and Cauberg will feature on each lap, with only the Cauberg being bypassed on the final lap. The championship style race will ensure Sunday is a race of attrition. Team Qhubeka ASSOS (www.TeamQhubeka.com) will be looking to Simon Clarke to lead our charge with Michael Gogl also being a protected rider. Sander Armee, Sean Bennett, Sergio Henao, Bert-Jan Lindeman and Robert Power will complete our lineup. Thank you to the u17 W.V De Jonge Renner boys for announcing our Amstel Gold Race line-up (https://bit.ly/3mQmUdk)! Bert-Jan Lindeman “I have very good memories of the roads that make up the circuit for this year's Amstel Gold Race. The parcour is quite similar to the UCI World Championships of 2012, which I competed in as a first-year professional. That was a special moment in my career and these memories make me excited to go back and race the same roads.” “As the circuit is similar to that of a world championships route, you can be sure it is a very testing course where only the strongest riders can stand a chance to win. We believe we have such a rider, so we are going all in to position Simon Clarke at the front of the race, to fight for the victory.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka ASSOS. Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About Team Qhubeka ASSOS:
Team Qhubeka ASSOS is a purpose-led, high-performance team, fighting to win on the world's biggest stage, to inspire hope and create opportunity. Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka ASSOS (formerly NTT Pro Cycling) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in six Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. There are 19 nationalities represented across our World Tour and continental feeder team rosters. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage, since the team's inception. We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 30 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .