 Hope Uzodimma. Photo; TWITTER/HOPEUZODINMA1  The Imo State Government has urged security agencies to investigate and fish out the perpetrators and sponsors of  Monday’s attack on the Nigerian Correctional Centre and police facilities in Owerri. The state’s Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, who briefed journalists, yesterday, after the weekly State Executive Council meeting at the Government House, Owerri, said the executive resolved that the masterminds should face justice accordingly. According to the commissioner, the Council commended what they referred as proactive step of the governor, Hope Uzodimma, in dealing with the problem so far, including drawing the attention of the Federal Government to it. He said: “The Council directed the security agents to expedite investigation and make sure that no stone is left unturned and to also beam searchlight on all possible suspected areas and not concentrate on only one area. “The Council also stated government’s stand that oil companies operating in Imo State can key into the vision of government by identifying projects and needs of the communities, which they can fund and not distributing cash to some individuals.” Emelumba also hinted that the executive had resolved to co-ordinate and harness all the projects funded by the World Bank in the state in line with the enabling acts. ALSO, a group, Nzuko Umunna, has condemned the attack. It urged prompt directive by President Muhammadu Buhari to all security and intelligence agencies to ensure the arrest and prosecution of the attackers and the restraint displayed by the Acting Controller-General of Corrections, John Mrabure in his preliminary report on the incident. In a statement, the group noted that it considered hasty the statement by the former Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, that the attackers were members of the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB)/Eastern Security Network (ESN) and also listed several sophisticated weapons deployed by the attackers to include General Purpose Machine Guns (GPMGs), Sub-Machine Guns (SMGs), AK-49 rifles, Rocket Propelled Grenades (RPGs) and Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs). MEANWHILE, the Imo State Police Command has confirmed attack on the Divisional Police Headquarters in Mbieri, Mbaitoli Local Council at about 10.30 p. m. on Wednesday. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, who confirmed the Mbieri incident, said two police officers sustained injuries in the process of repelling the attack, adding that they had been taken to a facility for treatment. He also dispelled the rumour that an officer was kidnapped. “Mbieri Divisional Police Headquarters was attacked at 22:30 hours, but successfully repelled. Two officers injured and presently receiving treatment.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .