 Chinua Achebe  On that basis alone Okonkwo was the equal of any man. But by the manner of his death, death by suicide, that was not always apparent. Okonkwo lived and died in a village called Umuofia. He was a hardworking yam farmer and merchant, and he was an outstanding citizen.  At every crossroad, our leaders followed the line of least resistance of their conscience and made the wrong turn. Achebe’s narrative ended with Okonkwo’s suicide. But to see Okonkwo as a tragic figure of his own lack of discernment and intolerance is to miss the point completely. Okonkwo’s crisis started with his drive for achievement coupled with his consuming need to compensate for what he thought was his father’s life of underachievement: Unoka would die as he had lived with unpaid debts.
 
Okonkwo’s crisis continued with his inability to close the spiritual expectation gap between his Chi and himself. Okonkwo thought that his Chi had not done enough to redirect Agbala from claiming to sacrifice his daughter, Ezinma. The negative energy thus generated, he then channeled to resist the alien influence in thought, culture, and religion that targeted his people. That negative energy peaked when he was unable to recruit any of his family or friends to the resistance, especially Obierika his best friend. 
 
At each point of Okonkwo’s personal and social crises, an intervention by men or women of conscience could have produced a different outcome. In the final analysis, Achebe’s genius is revealed when we understand that Things Fall Apart was more than a literary rebuttal of Kipling and Conrad on an intellectual level. It was a social allegory of Nigeria as Okonkwo.
 
Now let’s go and find ten men or women of conscience in Nigeria; if we are not sixty-something years too late. 
 
“When we are comfortable and inattentive, we run the risk of committing grave injustices absentmindedly.”  
Chinua Achebe (The Education of a British-protected Child) Concluded.
Ngene wrote from Atlanta, Georgia, United States. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .