 Near Windsor Castle on Saturday.Credit…Andrew Testa for The New York Times  – The royal family -“You know he didn’t suffer fools. So if you said anything that was in any way ambiguous, he’d say, ‘make up your mind!'” Charles, Prince of Wales, Philip’s son and heir to the throne “My grandfather was an extraordinary man and part of an extraordinary generation.” Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, Charles’ eldest son and second-in-line “He was my grandpa: master of the barbecue, legend of banter, and cheeky right ’til the end.” Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, William’s younger brother – World leaders -“He helped to steer the royal family and the monarchy so that it remains an institution indisputably vital to the balance and happiness of our national life.” UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson “He was a heck of a guy.” US President Joe Biden “At the queen’s side or trailing the customary two steps behind, Prince Philip showed the world what it meant to be a supportive husband to a powerful woman.” US former president Barack Obama Philip “embodied a generation that we will never see again”. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison “Prince Philip was a man of great purpose and conviction, who was motivated by a sense of duty to others. The duke always sought out the best in people and challenged them to strive for greater heights.” Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau – Popular tributes -“The spirit of Prince Philip has left his body, but it lives on — it is too soon to say where it will reside.” Albi, chief of Yakel village on the Pacific island of Vanuatu, where Prince Philip is revered as a god “I think his impact has been absolutely phenomenal. The programme has grown, the demand for the DofE (Duke of Edinburgh Award) today is stronger than its ever been and that’s a fantastic legacy.” Ian Gwilym, senior relationships manager at the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award, a scheme for young people established in 1956 and now operating in more than 140 countries “He was the patriarch of one of the strongest families in the world. This is a pivotal moment for the royal family. The Queen has relied on him and I don’t think they will have realised the size of this loss.” Well-wisher at Buckingham Palace on the day of Prince Philip’s death “It’s a great loss to not just the Queen, but to the country. He represented stability for all of our lives.” Heather Utteridge, onlooker at the ceremonial 41-gun salute given in Prince Philip’s memory in London on April 10  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .