Chief of Staff to Governor Ganduje, Alh. Ali Makoda (left); Deputy Governor, Kano State, Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna; Governor Abdullah Umar Ganduje; APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; former Governor of Osun State, Chief Bisi Akande; Executive Chairman, Kano Anti-Corruption Commission, Barr. Muhuyi Magaji Rimin-Gado; Senator representing Kano North, Senator Barau Jibril; Kano State Commissioner for Local Government, Murtala Sule Garo during the commissioning of the anti-corruption commission edifice as part of activities marking Tinubu’s 69th birthday and 12th colloquium held in Kano It is often said that a golden fish has no hiding place; even dip down an ocean. The recent visit by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to Kano State brought with it the Asiwaju’s phenomenon that knows no boundary in all facets of human endeavour in Nigeria and beyond. Asiwaju’s visit also brought his famed political colour and acumen. His bridge-building skills were also on display as his colloquium held in the ancient city. It is a well-known fact that Tinubu’s political influence is pervasive, as he has mentored hundreds of political leaders across the country. Many political actors, especially those holding very exalted offices today owe their success to the generosity and support of Asiwaju, whose abiding interest is to build leaders and a prosperous nation. That could explain why Tinubu, who is also the National Leader of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) is being celebrated annually through an internationally recognized colloquium. The colloquium has earned its plaudits as a platform for dissecting national issues. The colloquium’s 12th edition coincided with Asiwaju’s 69th birthday. And being hosted in Kano State, it unveiled a unique dimension to the promotion of Nigeria’s unity in diversity. It was also the first time it would hold outside Lagos and Abuja, 12 years after its inception. In recognition of his political sagacity and true progressive bent, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje thrilled the celebrant with a special golden gift, when he named the new administrative edifice of the state Anti-Corruption Commission after Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The unveiling of the new Bola Ahmed Tinubu Anti-corruption building held a day before the colloquium. Tinubu was earlier conducted round some legacy projects being undertaken by Governor Ganduje within the Kano metropolis. Projects For His Eyes
Some of the facilities shown to the august visitor include, Dangote Entrepreneurial and Skill Accusation Centre, multi-billion-naira Cancer treatment Centre and ongoing construction of Flyovers. Asiwaju was thereafter led to commission the Anti-Corruption edifice. The new anti-corruption building was structurally upgraded with modern aesthetic design and to reflect international standards.  The newly crafted magnificent edifice situated along the state road in the heart of the metropolis, is integrated with the state of the art technology and information communication facility. According to the governor, the upgraded facility can now accommodate a comprehensive operations department with designated rooms for investigation and interrogation, as well as, a detention lodge for both male and female suspects. The detention rooms are well ventilated with water, electricity, toilets and bathrooms for the comfort of the suspects, a clear departure from the previous system. For effective communication and media engagement, the PR department of the commission is enabled with a well-equipped and soundproof live studio, alongside sophisticated gadgets designed for live and recorded programmes. The new studio will further enhance the commission’s media production and programme packaging regularly aired on conventional media outfits to reduce the huge cost the commission spends on radio programmes. Besides, the new structure is fully wired with a communication broadband network that strengthens interconnectivity between the anti-corruption headquarters and its area offices across the 44 local councils of the state.  With the local networking, it was explained that operatives can effectively carry out investigation and interrogation in any part of the state and relay directives back to the headquarters. The comprehensive installation of the CCT Cameras mounted at every strategic location is expected to further enhance security surveillance. Sensitive to peculiar physical conditions, especially people living with disability, special passage points are provided for people who may find it difficult to use the regular facility. As it stands, suspects, notwithstanding state of physical ability, would freely access the anti-corruption edifice with or without aid. Similarly, all departments, operational units and other sub-units at the administrative offices are consciously fitted with fire safety equipment, a precautionary measure against emergency. Newly expanded conference room interjecting the office of the executive chairman is upgraded and well-furnished with air conditioners for executive comfort. Staff and visitors can access meal while in the premises, because the new in-house kitchen/restaurant is well positioned with constant standby electricity generator to serve all kinds of food. A glimpse at all the departments, including the office of the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Commission, Citizens Rights, Public Complaints and Operations wear modern glossy impressions with furniture, appliance, foot tiles and interlock spread across the length of the premises for conducive and easy movement. It is worthy to note that rehabilitation projects from conceptual level to the interiors designs down to finishing touch were executed by direct labour under close supervision of Kano state Ministry of Works and Infrastructure. Prior to the renovation funded by the state government, the commission had not witnessed such a tremendous structural and operational transformation since its establishment about fifteen years ago. Essentially, the commission had significantly strived better in execution of core mandates of ensuring a relative society filter of corrupt practices as statutorily empowered and so doing without internal or external interference. Governor Ganduje’s determination to rid the state of the scourge of corrupt practices and other societal ills motivated the resuscitation of the anti-graft agency under the executive chairman, Barrister Muhuyi Magaji Rimin-Gado, to check the prevalence of graft in the system. The commission under Barrister Muhuyi had manifested many success stories and momentous achievement especially with investigation and prosecution of high profile cases of misappropriation of public funds. The ‘New Sheriff in town’ has instilled discipline and sanctity in the process and conduct of public and government businesses; hence the popular saying goes the presence of Muhuyi is now the beginning of wisdom. In the belly of lockdown when Nigerians are struggling to feed, because of the COVID-19 pandemic, Barrister Muhuyi was able to curtail the ruthless attitude of some traders who had want to seek the undue opportunity to inflate the cost of food items and common consumables in Kano. The incident, which would have imposed untold hardship on ordinary residents was urgently demystified when leaders of the marketers and traders including members of Integrated Rice Millers Association were summoned by the anti-corruption commission to explain the rationale for the increase in the prizes of food. The matter was amicably resolved with commitment of the traders to return their new prize regime back to normal. The intervention however brought succor to the society after which residents return to markets with no needless pressure on their purchasing power any more. After untapped the anti-corruption building, Tinubu who was conducted round the operations unit, administrative and other areas of the retooled structure  commissioned applauded the Governor Ganduje’s commitment to purge Kano of corrupt practice and other related ills in the society. Tinubu who emphasized the hope for prosperous, corruption-free and accountability in Nigeria and Africa, maintained that, precedence for the new Nigeria is already being put to test by the Kano state government. “With the giant stride taking place in Kano, Nigeria will soon become a member of a committed international  community and greatly well deserving nation, that will soon be free from the burden of corruption. We are certain this edifice will play an important role in Kano. This is a welcome development indeed and we must salute the governor for this encouraging effort. On his part, Governor Ganduje disclosed that when he assumed office, the anti-corruption institution had barely accounted for any tangible success, until he overhauled the entire system with appointment of a vibrant human rights activist, whose pedigree for human rights and freedom was enough reason for his achievements, to oversee the activities of the agency. Referring to Barrister Muhuyi Magaji Rimingado, the Executive Chairman of the Commission, Ganduje noted that, “When he was appointed as the Chairman, we made it very clear that there would be no interference in the activities of the Agency. And up till now we have not interfered in any of their activities and our administration has continued to support the anti-graft body for effective and efficient operations. The governor applauded the efforts of Rimingado with further assurance that the commission will remain an independent outlet, operating within its statutory powers as entrenched in provisions of the laws that established it.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .