Electricity workers. PHOTO: Amos Kobor Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) and Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC), yesterday, felicitated with their customers and Christians across the country on this year’s Easter celebration. In their goodwill messages, they assured customers across the networks of their commitment to hitch-free and stable service during the holiday. EKEDC in a statement signed by the Company’s General Manager, Corporate Communications, Godwin Idemudia, described Easter as a celebration that holds profound lessons on humility, humanity, kindness, empathy and selfless sacrifice. He said the company is committed to improving the current power supply situation to ensure there is an adequate power supply to its customers during the period of the celebration and beyond. He said that the continuous upgrade of its facilities and distribution infrastructure is to enable the company to consolidate its promise of improved supply to all the customers within its distribution network. IBEDC Chief Operating Officer, John Ayodele, explained that measures have been put in place to ensure network stability and smooth operation during the holidays. He also advised consumers to ensure that their homes and business premises are properly wired and earthed only by approved technicians to ensure the safety of lives and property. “It is illegal and dangerous for anyone to trade, live or work near electricity installations or even tamper with them, motorists are also admonished to avoid drinking under the influence of alcohol and observe traffic rules to prevent collision with electrical poles and other accidents.” “We recognize the fact that the electricity demand always increases during the festive season, we have therefore positioned our technical crew to monitor and patrol the network to ensure faults are cleared as and when due and also mitigate the effect of any disruption to electricity supply,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .