Canon Central & North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) signals its intent to unlock the true value of the region’s print sector by signing four new value business partners in key markets – and cementing its footprint across the region.  In response to key findings from the first ever Middle East and Africa study on the State of the Printing Industry – conducted by Canon in conjunction with print industry news leader ME Printer in mid-2020 – CCNA is tapping into the significant gap between customer demands and service offerings in the print market. “Findings from our study highlights the growth of digitisation accelerated by the pandemic but also, significantly, indicates an evolution in customer demand, which points to a range of untapped growth opportunities within the sector, particularly for Print Service Providers (PSPs),” explains Ben Gossage: Sales & Marketing B2B for Canon Central & North Africa. The greatest gap lies in customer interaction and the value that can be derived from a more consultative approach, notes Ben. “A report on our findings, entitled ‘Creating Customer Value’ reflects that fewer than 20% of print service providers (PSPs) are fulfilling their customers’ needs. About 80% of print buyers expressed a distinct need for more creative input from their print providers, and 86% of print buyers would welcome advice on combining print with digital elements,” adds Ben. Close collaborations for sustainable growth For this reason, Canon has employed its Closer to Customers strategy and is strengthening its distribution network with the addition of four new business partners in key markets. Docutech and Al Mactab will focus on advancing Canon’s Wide Format print solutions in Ghana and Libya respectively, while Express Automation will amplify Canon’s Professional Print services in Kenya and Digimate will boost Document Solutions and Large Format Print offerings in Morocco. Canon identifies, selects, and endorses partners that demonstrates the company’s rigorous standard of knowledge, skills, and service, for a mutually beneficial collaboration that translates to a major win for customers seeking print solutions on the continent. “We help our African partners realise new efficiencies and make their own businesses more profitable,” explains Ben. “We start by combining best-in-class technology with a portfolio of services and support, giving them industry-leading products and packages to sell. Then we help our customers’ businesses, and their people, develop, with a 360° approach to their success. From consultancy to rewards and from progression opportunities to sales training, we give our partners what they need to grow – including ensuring that they and their teams have a digital mindset,” adds Ben. Inspired by Canon’s corporate philosophy, ‘kyosei’, partnership underpins everything the company does.  A cutting-edge portfolio, backed up by the company’s Dubai HQ and support from six in-country offices, sets Canon Central and North Africa apart from the competition. This is attributed to a focus on the 5 pillars of success – diversify, collaborate, expand, win, streamline – and how these can impact each partner’s business. “The world has turned digital, and a digital mindset is open to exploring the immense opportunities available to develop and grow. As pioneers in digital innovation, Canon is perfectly placed to guide all our partners, at every tier of our partners program, to succeed in this complex and rapidly evolving landscape. We will continue to push back the frontiers of what is possible by developing and diversifying with new solutions at every milestone – and helping our partners share those solutions to our customers,” concludes Ben. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media enquiries, please contact:
Canon Central and North Africa 
Mai Youssef 
e. Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency 
Rania El Rafie 
e. rania.elrafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa: 
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .