A partnership between Schneider Electric and Arravo IT solution has resulted in the development of  6U wall-mount EcoStruxure Micro Data Centre. The Micro Data Centre, which allows edge computing and networking equipment to be deployed almost anywhere, has the capacity to help organisations, especially small businesses to cut operating expenses (OPEX) by as much as 30 per cent. At its unveiling in Lagos, Senior Solution Architect for Anglophone West Africa, Schneider Electric, Osita Anyabuike, said the unique low-profile design data centre, allowed heavier edge servers, networking equipment, and UPS to be safely placed high up on a wall, thus freeing up valuable floor space and out of reach of physical security threats. “Additionally, our replaceable dust filter and integrated band ventilation allow the 6U wall-mount micro data center to operate in dusty and light industrial environments, such as storefronts and warehouses, as well as office environments and traditional IT environments. Using our tools, customers can quickly configure the EcoStruxure Micro Data Centre to include a wide range of capabilities, such as premium power protection with our APC Smart-UPS battery backup products, advanced security options with the APC net box offer, and remote management and services enabled by its next-generation DCIM platform,” Anyabuike said. Chief Executive Officer of Arravo,  Ayo Adegboye, said the 6U low-profile rack micro data centre, designed for remote and branch office operations, would be the first-ever compact in sub-Saharan Africa. He said the solution would be marketed by Arravo IT Solution company across its wide range of customers. Arravo is therefore the technical partner of APC By Schneider Electric that will market the product, which supports remote office and branch office operations. “The solution reduces opex and capex, as much as 30 per cent and it will help customers to save space, time and energy since the microdata centre will eliminate server room space,” Adegboye said. Enterprise Account Manager, West Africa, APC By Schneider Electric, Emeka Morris Nmor, said: “The microdata has the capacity to accommodate several servers. The capacity of any data centre depends largely on the number of servers it can accommodate and the capacity of the server determines the storage capacity of the data centre. Everything that is needed in a big data centre, is embedded in the microdata centre such as UPS, cooling system, including security features like intrusion sensor that detects attacks as well as digital cameras.” Channel Sales Manager, APC By Schneider Electric, Oluwaseun Oloyede, said: “With the advancement in technology, coupled with emerging technologies like Internet of Things (IoTs), a lot of remote locations and branch offices that do not have space and the huge resources to maintain a giant size data centre, will find the micro data centre very useful.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .