NFF President, Amaju Pinnick (middle), flanked by Super Falcons Manager, Randy Waldrum, and his assistant, Ann Agumanu-Chiejine, at the Dipo Dina International Stadium Ijebu-Ode, venue of the on-going NWFL Super Six Championship Coach Moses Aduku of Bayelsa Queens yesterday became the first casualty of the ongoing Nigerian Women Football League (NWFL) when he was sacked by his team for his side’s poor showing in the competition. Ironically, Aduku was rated as the best coach in the league before the Super Six Championship due to his club’s consistent good outing in the both the league and AITEO Cup. But the saying that a coach is as good as his last outing came to pass in Ijebu Ode where Bayelsa Queens have been so poor that their dream of playing in the maiden African Women Champions League has evaporated. Yesterday, Bayelsa lost 4-0 to neighbours, Rivers Angels, a team that was tipped for early exit after matchday two. Now, the Angels have five points out of a maximum nine, and are placed second on the table. They are in a position to contest for the title and the CAF Women Champions League ticket. Bayelsa Queens’ Chairman, Robin Apreala, who announced Aduku’s sack, said the national U-20 team’s assistant coach has not lived up to the expectations of the clubs sponsors. In yesterday’s second game, FC Robo of Lagos thrashed Edo Queens 4-1 to eliminate the Benin side from the battle for the 2021 league title and WAFU B qualifiers for the CAF Women Champions League. Among dignitaries in yesterday’s games were Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) President, Amaju Pinnick, NRA president, Tade Azeez, Delta Sports Commission Chairman, Tonobok Okowa, Rivers State Sports Commissioner, Boma Iyaye, Rivers FA Chairman, Chris Green, Chief Solomon Ogba, Super Falcons Chief coach, Randy Waldrum, NFF Technical Director, Augustine Eguavoen, Chief Falilat Ogunkoya-Omotayo and Chikelue Ilonuasi. The NWFL Premiership Super Six continues today with Rivers Angels meeting demoralised Edo Queens in the first game at 10.00 a.m. A win for Rivers Angels will boost their chances of challenging for the title. The second game at 12.00 noon is between Delta Queens and Bayelsa Queens, while the third match, which is the game of the day, is between FC Robo and Sunshine Queens.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .