The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Anambra State chapter, has kicked off massive membership drive in all the 326 wards in the state to muster enough strength for the November 6 governorship election in the state. It also berated the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) for underdevelopment and social disharmony in the state and the country as a whole. Addressing newsmen at the party’s headquarters in Awka, yesterday, Anambra PDP Chairman, Ndubuisi Nwobu, said the registration was targeting 163,000 new members in addition to old party members in preparation for the governorship election in the state. According to him, the exercise is not a national issue, but preparation for the governorship election in the state, adding that the local council chairmen would sensitise the electorate and win support for the PDP. While handing over the PDP membership registration cards to the 21 council chairmen, he said: “We want to ensure that people are registered in addition to old members. We target at least 500 members in each of the 326 wards in the state. We are sensitising our people to become members of the PDP. We implore people to come out and register with PDP, join in the massive campaign and work towards the development of Anambra.” Nwobu said that local council monitoring team and zonal monitoring committee had been set up to ensure compliance in and success of the exercise. Strategies to employ include placing jingles in broadcast stations and use of town criers, he disclosed.The exercise, which begins from Tuesday next week, will last for seven days, The Guardian gathered. The PDP, he added, does not give out money to influence the electorate, unlike other political parties in the state, insisting that only a PDP government would bring the needed social, political and economic transformation of the state. He criticised APGA in Anambra for stunted development of the state, and APC for “deceiving the masses” with its change mantra characterised by nepotism, insecurity, social disharmony and sufferings among the citizenry.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .