 Eyimofe  Clearly an outstanding film, Eyimofe revolves around factory worker technician Mofe (Jude Akuwudike) and hairdresser Rosa (Temi Ami-Williams) on their quest for what they anticipate and believe will be a better life on foreign shores. However things take sudden swift as Mofe loses his family meanwhile Rosa fails to live up to the expectations and promise, which she made to Mofe. A meticulously stylish fare, it is to the actors that credit should go to for the excellent outcome of the movie. Their acting was roundly excellent and they all gave a commendable portrayal of the respective roles. Celebrity salutes some of these amazing talents and the other members of the cast and crew who deserve a great deal of credit for their effort in the movie. Eyimofe is distributed by APO Group on behalf of GDN Studios. Details of the film can be sourced at www.Eyimofe.film Jude Akuwudike (Mofe)
ACCOMPLISHED stage and screen actor, Jude Akuwudike played the lead role of Mofe in Eyimofe and the actor who has mostly worked in the United Kingdom on stage and screen showed stuff and played the role to the hilt. A Nigerian born actor educated in Britain, the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art trained actor has appeared in productions of the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Royal National Theatre. Jude has worked mostly on stage appearing in several productions for the National Theatre, Royal Shakespeare Company, as well as Broadway. Some of his notable appearances for the National Theatre include Not About Nightingales and Moon on a rainbow Shawl. His first film appearance was in A World Apart, which came shortly after he played Captain Watkin Tench in the 1988 production of Our Country’s Good staged at the Royal Court Theatre. Jude has ridden on the back of these early career productions to feature in a number of film and television productions. He also works as a voice actor. Temi Ami-Williams  (Rosa)
THE story of Eyimofe will not be complete without a mention of the delightful interpretation that creative entrepreneur, actress, costumier and voice over artiste Temi Ami-Williams gave the role of Rosa, the everyday hustler who tried to make ends meet through multiple source of income. The actress gave an ‘A’ performance as Rosa, the hairstylist and bartender who struggles to survive. A graduate of theatre arts and an On-Air Personality, Temi taught at a school for autistic children and still works as a costume designer. Eyimofe is her debut screen outing and she proved with her delightful interpretation of the role that she has her eyes on the summit. Cynthia Ebijie (Grace)
CYNTHIA Ebijie had a good run in Eyimofe. The actress who started out in 2018 played the role of Grace and twinned so well with Temi-Ami Williams; they both delivered an unforgettable performance. An actress with eyes on the summit, Cynthia made her debut in the movie Marooned. But she is best known for her role in the Africa Magic Series My siblings and I in which she plays the role of Bimpe. So far, the promising actress has featured in a couple of movies and television series, including Small Chops by Chika Ike. Eyimofe is Cynthia’s best big fruit as an actress and she is excited to be part of the movie, which she says ‘is accurate in mirroring life’. Kemi Lala (Madam)
KEMI Lala is in Eyimofe. The stage and screen actress played the role of the Madam, who reflects a corrupt government that is self-serving with little regard for the well being of its citizen.  And Kemi, who featured as Casting Director on the project, lived the role of Madam believably. Hailed for her passion and interest in the acting vocation both on stage and screen, Lala as Kemi is simply called by close friends is reputed as a self made actress who is having a good run both on stage and screen. She featured in Kunle Afolayan’s new film The CEO and in the comedy film by TASC Surulere. She played the leading role in Tunde Kelani’s award winning film, Dazzling Mirage and has featured in a couple of stage productions. Chioma Omeruah aka Chigurl (Mama Esther)
COMIC actress and singer, Chioma Omeruah who is popular as Chigul, played the role of Mama Esther, a sex trafficker in Eyimofe. Though not the leading role, but Chigul lit up the scenes she appeared in and contributed in giving the movie its acting credits. Born in Lagos to Igbo parents and educated at Delaware State University, the French Education graduate who speaks five languages fluently started out in the entertainment industry as a singer under the name C-Flow. When she joined the acting and stand up comedy turf, she earned an alias—Chigul. The well-built actress has so far featured in a couple of Nollywood movies including Banana Island Ghost, The Wedding Party 2, Road To Yesterday and Chief Daddy. Sadiq Daba  (Jakpor)
THE late Sadiq Daba featured as Jakpor in Eyimofe and the veteran actor lived his role believably and delightfully. A quintessential broadcaster, who worked with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) for over three decades until he retired, the late Uncle Sadiq as his junior colleagues simply call him, has received numerous industry recognitions and awards in his long-standing career as an actor and broadcaster. He received the African Movie Academy Awards (AMAA) for his role in October 1 in 2016 and has received numerous other recognitions and awards. Sadiq passed on recently after a long drawn battle with Leukemia. Ejike Asiegbu  (Goddey)
Notable Actor Ejike Asiegbu makes a big come back on the big screen in Eyimofe. The former President of the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN) lived the role of Goddey and he acquitted himself as a dependable actor. An actor who needs little introduction, Ejike who is a product of the Theatre Arts Department of the University of Porthacourt has featured in over 150 home video productions with stunning appearances in movies such as The Price, Holy Crime, Day of Reckoning, Oracle, Black Heart, Ritual, Mama Sunday, Yesterday, Foul Play, Abuja Boys, and The Soul That Sinneth. A multi-award winning actor, Ejike hit a nerve as the lead actor in the 1997 movie Day Break. His input there earned him a nomination in the 1997 edition of The Movie Award dubbed THEMA 97. He got a similar mention in the 1996 edition of the award. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .