 [FILES] Guns PHOTO: Pongsatorn Singnoy | Shutterstock.com<br />  The political class, the elite, and indeed all Nigerians should be worried that such arms are fuelling the daring spate of well-coordinated attacks on police and military commands, which is a testament to pervading anarchy threatening to consume all, including politicians that weaponise street urchins for election purposes, and the politically-exposed and ruling elite that have kept mum on the ticking time-bomb. Unless concerted, drastic, and urgent measures are taken to pull back from the brink, Nigeria, more than before, risks spinning out of control.  Merchants of the lucrative and largely untrammeled arms business are also having a field day, with supplies going to all manner of militias and criminals in the country. For instance, in 2017 the Nigeria Customs made a seizure of 440 guns of various sizes and designs shipped from Turkey to Lagos. Subsequently, the Tin Can Island Command also uncovered a container with another cache of arms imported from Turkey. That discovery came barely a week after the command intercepted a 20-foot container laden with 1,100 pump action rifles. These are only the known incidents; it is feared that more cases of illegal arms importation are not made public or even discovered.
   
In reality, the only thing that flourishes in such settings of free arms-bearing is chaos and carnage: daily gun battles and deaths, jailbreaks, invasions and ransacking of police outposts, kidnappings, and banditry, all signposting a country going out of control. The Global Terrorism Index 2020 report ranked Nigeria as the third most terrorised country in the world. The indices have worsened in 2021 with some 80,000 Nigerians estimated to have died in recent months with close to three million Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) spread nationwide.
  
But Nigeria can and should avert a rapid cascade in the direction of Afghanistan, Libya, and Syria that are languishing in a total breakdown of law and order. But that is if State actors at all levels collectively brace up in firm decision against all illegal weapons, irrespective of the holder. To achieve that, the first task is to fix the low rating approval of the Federal Government. A government lacking in public trust and confidence to fairly uphold law and order in accordance with Section 14(2) (b) of the 1999 constitution (as amended) is an incentive for citizens and indigenous groups to take up arms in self-defence. The Buhari-administration needs to come alive in security duty and clean off ethnic chauvinism to reinforce public confidence in its ability and competency to secure Nigerians and discourage self-help that can only accelerate country disintegration.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .