•Urges Members To Prepare For Ekiti, Osun 2022 Governorship Elections The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Southwest Zone, has commended former Ekiti Governor, Mr Ayodele Fayose and his group over the decision to promote unity and oneness of the party in the zone. The party also commended Fayose for prevailing on the chairmanship candidate, Dr Eddy Olafeso and others that contested in the just concluded PDP Southwest Congress in Osogbo, Osun State, from challenging the outcome of the congress in the court. The PDP Southwest Publicity Secretary, Chief Sanya Atofarati, in a statement, in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, praised the former governor for displaying high level maturity by yielding to calls and appeals from PDP to sheathe the sword. Atofarati said: “The outcome of the meeting, held by Fayose’s group in Ogun State, on Friday was a good one and a right step towards ensuring unity and oneness of the party in the zone.” He stated that Fayose group’s decision to join forces with Governor Seyi Makinde and Taofeek Arapaja-led Southwest leadership was a welcome development that will further help rebuild the opposition party. “We saluted the former governor and his group for resolving that none of its candidates will go to court to challenge the outcome of the congress and maintained that the common enemy of PDP and that of Nigerians is the APC.” The PDP Southwest spokesperson also encouraged members to brace up for the challenges ahead of the Ekiti and Osun states Governorship Elections holding in 2022, as well as the 2023 general elections. He urged PDP faithful in the zone to redouble their efforts towards ensuring they restore sanity to governance in the country. He also called on PDP family members to take advantage of the alleged bad governance of the APC and the Buhari-led administration in the area of security and economy to stage a quick come back to power, at both the state and the federal levels. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .