Cardi B Slams Republican Glenn Glothman For Criticising Her Grammy Performance Cardi B, who performed her hit ‘WAP,’ an acronym for ‘wet a** p****,’ with Megan Thee Stallion at the Grammy awards last month shot back on Twitter, asking why Rep Glenn Grothman was devoting his time to this while police violence has been dominating the news. On Thursday, Grothman went after the rapper on the House floor saying that he’s been receiving complaints to his office about the rapper’s performance at the Grammys and that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) should do their job. The Wisconsin Republican said: They wonder why we are paying the FCC if they feel that this should be playing in living rooms across the nation. I realize that Kamala Harris has used her fame to promote this performer, but I assure the FCC that millions of Americans would view her performance as inconsistent with basic decency. Cardi B immediately hit back, writing: This gets me so mad ya don’t even know! I think we all been on the edge this week since we seen police brutality back to back including watching one of the biggest case in history go down DUE to police brutality but wait!’ she said in reference to the Derek Chauvin guilty verdict in the killing of Minneapolis black man George Floyd. This gets me so mad ya don’t even know! I think we all been on the edge this week since we seen police brutality back to back including watching one of the biggest case in history go down DUE to police brutality but wait ! This is wat state representative decide to talk about  https://t.co/k2ZBn9gONA — iamcardib (@iamcardib) April 22, 2021  In another tweet, Cardi B wrote: ‘Mind you Nikkas can’t give a word about Jacob Blake or give him proper Justice but this part of the reason why !!!!!’ she said referencing the 29-year-old black man who was shot seven times in the back last year by police in Kenosha, Wisconsin, leaving him paralyzed. ‘They giving seats to F**KIN IDIOTS!!’ she said. ‘This is why people gotta vote, elect better people cause you got these dum a**es representing states.’ Mind you Nikkas can’t give a word about Jacob Blake or give him proper Justice but this part of the reason why !!!!! They giving seats to FUCKIN IDIOTS!!This is why people gotta vote ,elect better people cause you got these dum asses representing states . https://t.co/VkNHzv48Dy — iamcardib (@iamcardib) April 22, 2021  Cardi B’s Grammy performance with Megan Thee Stallion featured her pole-dancing on the heel of a gigantic stiletto and gyrating on an oversized bed.