 Buhari  We cannot deny the overdue issue of restructuring at this critical juncture; any further ado will blow the entity into pieces. Although there are some variations in the definition and implementation of federalism, the core requisites are indelible: 1.) devolution of powers from the federal government to the states where the federal is limited to internal and external defence, foreign affairs, and macroeconomics (executive list) and some very limited roles in the concurrent list; 2) the states deal with the issues of education, water provision, transportation system, electricity, policing, firefighting, etc; 3) each state controls resources and allocates part of its revenue to the federal; and 4) empowerment of minorities from marginalization.
 
The inveigh against the prevailing pseudo-federalism is at climax, provoked by distinction in poverty; eroded life-expectancy; skyrocketing unemployment rate; pervasive insecurity; ruinous infrastructure; rundown social amenities; over-dependency on the finite mono-culture economy; over-centralization of power, fiscal policies, and resources at the center; massive brain drain; stampeding business flights; wrecking inflation; audacious disdain for justice; glorification of corruption; and promotion of mediocrity over meritocracy, which is about to deliver a monster baby in form of disintegration of the country if exigent, holistic and patriotic actions reflective of our heterogeneity are procrastinated.  Most of the proponents of restructuring have erroneously latched on to physical and security restructuring to the exclusion of institutional, attitudinal, and fiscal restructuring. A holistic restructuring should be done within a set period of close-ended dates as opposed to a slow-grinding approach with open-ended dates, especially after squandering 55 years (1966- 2021) over-killing restructuring. An inch-meal or delay-restart approach is not an option. The fact that esoteric individuals drew the 1999 constitution makes the document a nullity for various reasons; thus, a pointer to either a restructuring or a new constitution or a burst.   Geographical expression devoid of institutional, economic, security and attitudinal restructuring is more injurious to the nation and its citizenry than not having restructuring at all.  To be continued tomorrow
 
Olatunji is of UniWorld Legal Services, Lagos.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .