New Research Says The Queen Is A Bigger Brand Than Beyoncé And Some Celebrities The Queen is a bigger ‘global brand’ than Beyoncé, Kim Kardashian, David and Victoria Beckham, and Oprah Winfrey, new research as reported by The Daily Mail claims. The British Royal Family is said to be the world’s fifth-biggest ‘corporate’ brand, ahead even of Nike, Coca-Cola, Microsoft, and Disney. The finding comes from research commissioned for a True Royalty TV documentary about the Queen to mark her 95th birthday today. The analysis by Statista was based on a number of factors, including the number of online news articles that include at least one reference to an exact search term, such as ‘The Queen’. The research reveals that Queen Elizabeth’s ‘personal brand’ is 16 times bigger than singer Beyoncé and six times the size of Kim Kardashian and Microsoft founder Bill Gates. It is also nearly three times the size of that of Oprah Winfrey, and 23 times bigger than the Beckhams’. The British Monarchy as an institution is the fifth most talked about brand in the world, after Facebook, Amazon, Google, and Apple, and is ahead of huge global players including Coca-Cola, Microsoft, Disney, and Nike. The research also highlights how big the Royal Family corporate brand is compared to multinational corporations. Brand and business experts interviewed in the programme estimate the Royal Family’s brand value at around £71 billion, with the Queen’s personal brand worth at around £35 billion – similar to the values of household brands such as Coca-Cola. Kubi Springer, an award-winning International Brand Consultant who has worked with Nike, L’Oreal and Rolls-Royce, tells the programme: Nike, Ferrari and Coke, when you combined those brands together, the Queen’s brand has more articles than those three combined which is really powerful. The research for the programme also found that the Queen’s brand has remained steadily positive over recent history, despite the public relations fallouts from events such as the scandal surrounding Prince Andrew and the deteriorating relationship with Prince Harry and his and Meghan’s interview with Oprah Winfrey. On each occasion, the Queen has taken the necessary steps to protect the brand – whether through breaking with royal protocols to give Diana, Princess of Wales, a public funeral, to removing Prince Andrew from all duties, or in her public reaction to Harry and Meghan’s allegations about racism in the Royal Family.