 Aerial view of Lagos mainland  He warned them to eliminate quackery from the real estate sector to ensure a well-built and sustainable industry in the country. Salako, who spoke at the investiture of Mr. Ayo Adejumo as the 17th Chairman, Lagos chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP), advised the new leadership to be resilient in upholding ethical standards and exemplify excellent leadership as well as build on the success recorded by his predecessors. The Commissioner, who was a past president of, Association of Town Planning Consultants of Nigeria (ATOPCON) reassured professionals in the sector of government’s willingness to collaborate for capacity development and policy formulation as well as regulation in the state. NITP president, Olutoyin Ayinde, who addressed the gathering, urged the new executive to set new standards of excellence and push for a livable environment for citizens. Ayinde harped on the need for the responsible and responsive leadership that would challenge corrupt practices and restore sanity in the profession. He challenged Adejumo and his team to brace up for the task ahead, noting that the Lagos chapter has come a long way and is at the centre in the affairs of the institute. Speaking on ‘leadership recruitment-changing the narrative,’ Ayinde warned that, “Professionalism itself demands a high sense of integrity. For leadership to excel, it is presumed that the followership also has some level of humanity and integrity.” The former Lagos Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development urged planners to have a grip of their profession, demonstrate competence and show mastery of their calling to create livable communities. He commended the immediate past chairman of NITP Lagos, Mr Adebisi Adedire, and his team, saying that their administration was trailblazing in conducting a virtual election in the history of the profession. The new chapter chairman pledged to deliver a six-floor new secretariat for the state chapter. He also plans to develop the NITP recreation park, a special welfare program for all categories of members; enhance mentorship and the growth of young planners, and make the profession more visible in the state and the country at large. The chairman charged stakeholders to join the leadership in running the affairs of the chapter. The immediate past chairman, Adediri,  appealed to the new executive to ensure unity within the chapter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .