Lil Wayne Sparks Marriage Rumours To Girlfriend Denise Bidot Lil Wayne sparked rumours that he married on-again, off-again girlfriend Denise Bidot when he tweeted about “our forever.” “Happiest man alive! Today is the beginning of our forever. Forever?? Forever, ever?? FOREVER EVER!!!!! The Carters,” the rapper, whose real name is Dwayne Michael Carter Jr., wrote on Tuesday. Happiest man alive! Today is the beginning of our forever. Forever?? Forever, ever?? FOREVER EVER!!!!! The Carters. — Lil Wayne WEEZY F (@LilTunechi) April 20, 2021  A representative for Wayne said, “We have no confirmation of that as of yet.” Wayne and his girlfriend, Bidot were reported to have broken up in the fall over his support of President Donald Trump. Following the split, Wayne hinted that the 34-year-old model couldn’t handle being with someone so intense. He wrote: I live the way I love and love the way I live. I’m a lover not a lighter bekuz they burn out. I am an eternal fire and burning love, either leave with a tan, a 3rd degree burn, or stay and die in love. “You’re sweating,” he said, possibly alluding to his ex. “Sincerely, the fireman.” Bidot then confirmed their split on Instagram, where she posted, “Sometimes love just isn’t enough” alongside a broken-heart emoji. The “A Milli” rapper hinted earlier this month that he and Bidot had gotten back together when he posted a video on his Instagram Story of Bidot drawing their names in the sand surrounded by a heart as he teased a new song that played in the background. This would be Lil Wayne’s second marriage, as he was previously married to his high school sweetheart, Toya Johnson, from 2004-2006. They share 21-year-old daughter Reginae. Wayne also has three sons from other relationships. Dwayne Michael Carter Jr. known professionally as Lil Wayne is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, record executive, entrepreneur, and actor. He is regarded by many contemporaries as one of the most influential hip hop artists of his generation, and often cited as one of the greatest rappers of all time.