We would like to inform the public of the official confirmation of location and date for the Rugby Africa Cup Repechage (www.RugbyAfrique.com). The tournament will be hosted by the Burkina Faso Rugby Union in the capital Ouagadougou, from the 5th to the 13th of June.  Talking on the sidelines of organizing the tournament Rolande Boro, the President of the Burkina Faso Rugby Union, preparations are underway and now at an advanced stage, with growing fan excitement cheering on. Andrew Owor, Vice President of Rugby Africa, and President of the Rugby Committee, applauds the readiness of the Burkina Faso Rugby Union in organizing such an important tournament, which officially marks the start of the African Qualifiers for the 2023 Rugby World Cup to be held in France. Four teams are expected to participate in a round robin tournament over three match days,namely Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, and Nigeria. After the dust settles and with the results in, the winner of the tournament will join Pool D of the Rugby Africa Cup, to be hosted in Tunisia in July. Pool D consists of the Zimbabwe and Tunisia national teams. According to Andrew Owor, the top two teams of each of the four pools will progress to the final round of the Rugby Africa Cup in 2022. Thereafter the top 8 African teams will compete for one direct qualification to the Rugby World Cup and one slot in the repechage tournament, setting the stage. Rugby Africa has presented the following schedule for fixtures to kick-start the tournament. Thursday June 3 Saturday June 5 Wednesday June 9 Sunday June 13: Monday June 14 African Rugby has evolved at a very fast pace over the years. This adds equally to both fan and player excitement, as the seasons come and go. Continentally we have seen improved levels of inclusion in the sport, which have seen greater participation of women as both players and fans. Furthermore, we have seen the Webb Ellis Cup making its way into the continent through the Springboks, which gives us affirmation of the great quality of Rugby we play as a region. Judging from the last Rugby Africa Cup campaign, we remain bolted by the commitment of players, coaches, and fans alike, who have through their participation grown the entity of African Rugby into a globally competitive force. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Rugby Africa. For media enquiries please contact:
N: Lerato Chiyangwa
E: Rugby@apo-opa.com News & results:
Follow @RugbyAfrique on Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook
Website: www.RugbyAfrique.com About Rugby Africa:
Created in 1986, Rugby Africa (www.RugbyAfrique.com), previously the African Confederation of Rugby (Confédération Africaine de Rugby – CAR), is one of the six regional associations composing World Rugby (www.WorldRugby.org), the international organization responsible for the governing of Rugby Union and Rugby Sevens. Rugby Africa unites all African countries which play rugby union, rugby sevens, and women’s rugby. Rugby Africa organizes the qualifying competition for the Rugby World Cup, and Africa Sevens, a qualifying competition for the Olympic Games. Rugby Africa has 39 members. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .