The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lawmakers in the National Assembly, yesterday, commended the peaceful conduct of the party’s South-West zonal congress held in Osogbo, the Osun State capital on Tuesday. The congress resulted in the election of new executives led by Ambassador Taofeek Aragbaja. A statement signed by the duo of Adesegun Abdel-Majid Adekoya (Reps Deputy Minority Whip, PDP-Ogun) and Busayo Oluwole Oke (Chairman, House Public Accounts Committee, PDP-Osun), said that the Congress had projected the greatness of the PDP in the South-West. The lawmakers stated that the outcome of the congress despite all the concerns had shown that there was no alternative to PDP in the zone. They said that with elected zonal executives now in place, the South-West PDP was ready for full-fledged politicking ahead of future elections starting with those of Osun and Ekiti states  governorship polls in 2022 and then the general elections in 2023. According to the lawmakers: “Now, the battle has been won and lost but there is no vanquished and there is no restrictive winner. The victory belongs to all of us. “This is now the moment to mend the broken places, to reconcile and rebuild without any recourse to personal triumphalism. We are all winners, we have proven to them all that PDP is not like them, we belong to the same family under one umbrella, South-West is back under the umbrella now. “We can confidently say that the PDP is reclaiming all the South-West states come 2023, starting from Ekiti and Osun states  governorship polls. The war is over in the zone with the outcome of the zonal congress. The lawmakers also commended the leadership of Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, who is the leader of the party in the zone, being the only governor produced by the party, which made the congress a huge success despite all odds and urged leaders to rally round him in rebuilding the party in the zone for the task ahead. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .