 Dimi Keye  Born and raised in Lagos, he is the seventh of nine kids of his parents. His passion for music started from his childhood, as he was born into a family that loves music. He had secondary school education at Baptist Bowen College Lagos, before moving to Northern Cyprus, where he bagged BSc in Computer Information Systems. Currently studying for a master’s degree, he still keeps his eyes on the music, saying: “I basically was born into a family that loves music. I say that because my sister started composing songs way before I started and she is just beautifully talented. I started out composing R&B songs.” “During my secondary school days, I used to rap, but at some point, I just fell in love with Afrobeats. Over the years, I have been sharpening my craft and observing how the music industry works. I am very much excited and I can’t wait to gain more experience and grow.” He informed, “I have been into music since I was 11 years old, but professionally started my music career in 2020. I am a very simple person who just wants to sing and be heard globally. I love fashion, enjoy styling myself. Basically, I’m here to play my part in Afro-beats,” he added. Speaking on his debut project, Afrocentric and the inspiration behind it, Dimi Keye said the project consists of five records with features from Mystro and Blaqbonez. “On this project, I just wanted to show my range and talk about my experience as a young African, dishing out stories of love and good vibes. It includes mellow, mid-tempo, and upbeat sounds. “As an eccentric African, this EP projects my style and range. Afrocentric is set to blow your mind, give you nothing but positive vibes because that is me; I am all positive vibes and energy,” he stated. On how he records his music and what makes his style different from others, the singer said, “My recording process is mostly the vibe I get from the beat; I love to lay down my melodies first. This just fuels the writing process and fires the soul of the entire record. I also enjoy working with producers. Teamwork makes dream the work, right? I would say what sets me apart really is my appreciation and foundation of Afrobeats and my ability to fuse it with any other genre.” Asked about his views on collaboration and the artists he looks forward to working with, the dreadlock spotting artiste said, “Collaborations are great and effective; it widens your range and gives you the opportunity to gain new listeners outside your reach or cell.” “On my upcoming EP —Afrocentric— I have collaborations with two very talented artists who are also favorites, Mystro and Blaqbonez. I have got a huge list of collaborations that I’d both internationally and locally but I’d only mention a few. “Party next door is number one for me, 6lack, Pink sweats and that’s international. Locally, I’d love to collaborate with Rema, Oxlade, Burna boy, and lots more. I’m sure I’d make a fire track with these people and basically anyone I collaborate with.” Commenting on the ‘beef’ culture in the music industry, Dimi Keye said, “I am no fan of beef at all,” stressing, “the beef culture has been in existence in the music industry for a very long time, but I believe in having a healthy competition which involves trying to be the best at our craft while respecting each other because the one goal is get our sound to the global stage and keep it there even long after we are gone. There is a lot of music, arts, and culture to be explored in Africa and there is no space for beef.” Reacting to the trend where ladies are often seen in music videos dressed provocatively, the fast-rising act is of the opinion that women should dress the way they want, adding that the purpose of music videos is to provide a visual translation to the music. “If I sing about beautiful women, I want to see beautiful women in the videos. As long as people are making music with different content and videos are being made to translate those musical contents, then the trend will persist and it is absolutely fine. “Wait till you see my videos; I will keep coming out with great music and amazing visuals with each better than the former. I don’t even mind dropping another EP. So, just keep up with me and get blessed with nothing but positive vibes,” he noted. Asked how he manages his female fans, Dimi Keye said, “I will forever be grateful for the love and support they show me. It is all love, appreciation, and support of my music; they can wild out all they want, I love them all.” On his relationship status, the singer says: “Some things should be kept private until you are ready to show it to the world. When it comes to relationships, I don’t put that out there honestly. I’m just trying to focus more on my music at this point.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .