{files] Protester hold the Nigerian national flag where someone has written “Ends SARS Now” during a demonstration to protest against police brutality and scrapping of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in Lagos, on October 15, 2020. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP) To forestall the repeat of the #EndSARS protest that led to loss of life and property in October 2020, the Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Mohammed Dangyadi, has inaugurated the Police Public Complaints Committee (PPCC). The commission is to provide a permanent structure to help nip in the bud civil unrests, by giving the populace opportunity to channel their grievances on police misconduct to the appropriate quarters for necessary action. While inaugurating the committee yesterday, the minister said if the committee had been active, it would have been an adequate channel for Nigerians to ventilate their grievances on police brutality. “This administration is, therefore, determined that such ugly incidents would never occur again,” he added. Dangyadi recalled his address to the National Assembly during the defence of the ministry’s 2021 budget to the effect that the PPCC would be reactivated to investigate all complaints involving police personnel and members of the public. “It is good to note that the PPCC had been in existence since, but over the years became moribund due to lack of funds.” “While there is a Public Complaints Commission that deals generally with all kinds of complaints against administrative injustices by public institutions, the PPCC, which we are inaugurating today (Wednesday), is created as a specialised institution to deal strictly with public complaints against police personnel,” he stated. According to him, this practice is obtainable in many advanced nations such as Canada. “The overriding objective of the PPCC is to serve as an institution that has oversight on the activities of police personnel vis-à-vis their interaction with the public. “It is obvious that the current habit of the public lodging complaints against police personnel at police stations or at various police commands have not given the desired solutions to aggrieved Nigerians.” The committee is made up of Ministry of Police Affairs (Chair); Police Service Commission (PSC); Ministry of Justice (MoJ), National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), National Intelligence Agency (NIA) and CLEEN Foundation. Others are Nigeria Police Force, Police Community Relations Committee, Department of State Services and Police Inspectorate Department (Secretariat).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .