 Hope Uzodimma. Photo; TWITTER/HOPEUZODINMA1  The governor made the appeal in Owerri, yesterday, at the town hall meeting of the council of traditional rulers in the state on security issues. Uzodimma, represented by the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Paul Emeziem, also reiterated his commitment to ensure sustainable peace and unity in the state. He said his determination to offer viable development and prosperity of the state would be unachievable without peace and security in the state, adding that he was not unmindful of handiwork of the enemies and oppositions to distract the government and make the state vulnerable. He said: “No doubt, we are not sleeping over the security situation in our state but the government cannot do it alone. We need relevant information and support from the traditional rulers and other concerned Imo citizens to achieve results. “We are also determined to support every effort that will ensure sustainable peace and unity of the state because without that, all the laudable vision and developmental programmes of the government would not be achieved. “So, beyond what the government is doing in the areas of infrastructure, human capital development and so on, which are visible and commendable, there is need for us to join hands together to protect and safeguard the state and lives of the people.” “We are under obligation as patriotic citizens to support the government to provide the desired dividends of democracy for our people and we are undaunted in the resolve to get Imo back on track for the general good of the people,” Emeziem added. Earlier in his remark, His Royal Highness, Eze Emmanuel Okeke, Chairman, Imo State Community Policing, condemned the recent attacks in the state by suspected hoodlums. He also backed the establishment of the security outfit called EbubeAgu by the South-East governors, expressing optimism that with support of the people, they would achieve the desired results. He said: “We, the entire Ezes in the state, have vowed to partner with efforts that would bring to book those behind the dastardly and ungodly acts in our state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .