Police arrest suspected herdsman for invading Osun community, shooting three Some unknown gunmen have abducted three construction workers along Ikaramu-Akunnu Akoko in Akoko North West Local Council of Ondo State. It was gathered that the construction workers, whose identities have not been revealed at the time of filing this report, were working at the ongoing rehabilitation of Ikaramu-Akunnu Road when the hoodlums allegedly struck and whisked them to an unknown destination on Tuesday. The incident was said to have caused panic among the residents of the communities. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) of the state command, Mr. Tee-Leo Ikoro, who confirmed the incident, said that investigation had commenced into it. “Our men are already in the area to rescue the victims,” the PPRO stated. BESIDES, the traditional ruler of Ikaram, Oba Andrew Momodu, confirmed that the workers were kidnapped after they closed for the day’s job. SIMILARLY, the Alauga of Auga Akoko, Oba Samuel Agunloye, said: “The incessant kidnapping and other criminal acts are now worrisome in the area.” MEANWHILE, it was gathered that the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Okeagbe Akoko, Mr. Ade Akinwande, has led other officers to comb the forest to get the hoodlums and secure the release of the victims. IN another development, the Osun State Police Command, yesterday, said it had arrested a suspected Fulani herdsman, identified as Salisu Sulaiman, who, among others, allegedly attempted to abduct some residents of the state. The spokesperson of the police, Mrs. Yemisi Opalola, who confirmed the arrest yesterday, said the suspect, aged 18, hails from Ifofihan in Kwara State. Opalola said the suspect was arrested around 12:15 p.m. on Tuesday and that manhunt had continued for other fleeing suspects. Sulaiman and other fleeing members of the gang had, on Sunday night, invaded Koka community in Obokun Local Council of the state and made efforts to kidnap the residents. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .