 Daniel Ogoloma  Ogoloma who was also conferred with African Young Personality of the Year is the founder of New Generation Africa and British-born campaigner and strategist of Nigerian descent. President, ECOWAS youth council, Emmanuel William, said that the council’s conviction in the appointment is a result of his contributions towards uplifting the youths. He noted that the youths are the most vital force in the society and as such an urgent framework be placed to harness their energy in the task of transforming the continent into a truly developing one. “As we develop within a democratic setting in Africa, it is important that the Youths, who constitute the most cohesive and articulate component in the African Society should be fully involved in the task of societal development and consolidation of the achievements that is being recorded in our educational sector,” he added. According to him, Ogoloma’s stewardship is a response to the prolonged cravings of his generation for quality leadership in our society and for development and greatness. It is a crusade to vanguard the already disenchanted but mobilized young people in Africa. “As we struggle to stablise education, empowerment and employment opportunities for our youths in Africa, it is wise and patriotic to bring onboard leaders like Amb. Daniel Ogoloma, a great and distinguished man of our time, who has given succour to the vast majority of people in different capacities and spheres of life,” he said. The investiture, which took place in Lagos, Nigeria, had delegates from the EYC, media, ex-officio members of the council in attendance.  Previously, such honour has been conferred on African leaders such as; former Presidents, Olusegun Obasanjo, John Mahama and Ellen Johnson Sirleaf and GoodLuck Johnathon who was recently appointed ECOWAS Adviser. Ogoloma, a student of Oxford University expressing his excitement said, “It’s something I have been doing already. But I feel like with ECOWAS I will be able to do it at a larger scale,” Ogoloma said. He also noted that the major limitation to change among youths is poverty “One of the major factors that get young people recruited into extremism; crime, terrorism, cultism is poverty. When young people are poor, it makes them prone to extremist recruitment. These organisations bring young people in, offer them shelter, food and money and before you know it, they have them carrying arms and doing things they never intended to do.” “If we can improve life expectancy by creating more jobs and providing grants to young people, it would go a long way. If you look deeper into the stories of these young people, you’ll realize that they are not happy doing what they do, they are only ‘victims of circumstances. It’s important that they have the right circumstances so as to make proper decisions.” Ogoloma concluded To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .