 Obaseki. Photo: TWITTER/GOVERNOROBASEKI  The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday, urged the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, to rally Nigerians to save the tumbling economy, rather than playing the ostrich.  Emefiele’s reaction came after it was disclosed by the Minister of Finance that in 2020 alone, the CBN printed ₦2.86 trillion without matching the funds with proprietary economic activities. This was revealed by Ahmed while presenting the approved 2021 budget. CBN’s total gross Ways and Means loans to the Federal Government rose to as high as N13.8 trillion in the second half of 2020. The Ways and Means related loans are legal means by which the central bank lends money to the Federal Government to fund budget deficits. Typically, the government funds its deficits by either issuing bonds or drawing on multilateral loans. But sometimes this is not enough, meaning that it must turn to the apex bank to bridge the funding gap. Worse, though, this has been the trend of events over the past years, a clear indication of this and the previous administration’s inability to diversify revenue streams. While previous administrations battled to reduce this trend, the present administration proves its commitment to finance its budget continually by any means available. Starting at ₦2.5 trillion in 2015, the funds rose to ₦11.7 trillion by the end of 2019. FG further printed an additional ₦2.86 trillion in 2020. The CBN Act that guides the money regulator in its transactions with the government and the public, in Section 38, (1) and (2) states: Notwithstanding the provision in section 34 (d) of this Act, the Bank may grant temporary advances to the Federal Government regarding temporary deficiency of budget revenue at such interest rates as the Bank may determine. The total amount of such advances outstanding shall not at any time exceed five (%) percent of the previous year’s actual revenue of the Federal Government. With the preceding, the CBN doesn’t have the authority to print money beyond 5% of FG revenue in 2019. Total revenue generated in 2019 was ₦4.12 trillion. Therefore, the total stipulated money printable by CBN should not exceed ₦206 billion (5% of revenue generated in 2019). However, the bank went ahead to print ₦2.86 trillion, accounting for 69.4% of generated revenue in 2019. Analysts argue that with this CBN monetary policy, such amount of money being pumped into circulation without a corresponding increase in economic activities could spell dire consequences for inflation, private investment, the value of the naira, and citizens’ economic livelihood.
  
As Nigerians weigh in on the controversy, a development economist, Dr. Chiwuike Uba, yesterday, said the situation is worse than the governor painted it and that the extent of the challenge leaves the economy with sorrowful scars.  Productivity is low while consumption is very high, the business environment is neither friendly to the existing businesses nor encourages new investments in the country. This, in turn, affects our balance of payments, trade balance, exchange rate, and external reserves,” he stressed.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .