 Onpetu of Ijeru Kingdom, Oba Sunday Oladapo Oyediran (left); Governor Seyi Makinde; Otunba Segun Ogunwuyi and his wife, Seye, during their installation as Otunba Mayeloye and Yeye Mayeloye of Ijeru Kingdom, by Oba Oyediran in Ogbomoso, Oyo State… at the weekend.  PHOTO: NAJEEM RAHEEM  Makinde stated this in Ogbomoso at the installation of the Director-General, Oyo State Investment and Public and Private Partnership Agency (OYSIPA), Segun Ogunwuyi, as Otunba Mayeloye of Ijeru Kingdom. He said that by honouring only credible individuals with titles, traditional rulers would be able to attract a number of good-spirited Nigerians to render good service to the people. The governor extolled the virtues of the OYSIPA DG, describing Ogunwuyi’s installation as Otunba Mayeloye and his wife as Yeye Mayeloye of Ijeru Kingdom as a well-deserved honour. The governor said that the former member of the Oyo State House of Assembly and House of Representatives had good records in all the places he had served in the country, adding that his footprints are still noticeable in the Assembly many years after he left. He said: “First, I want to say that this honour is well-deserved and I want to thank God that one of us is being honoured in his homestead. They do say that prophets are usually not honoured in their homes but this one is being honoured at the grassroots. “I am glad that one of our own, who is also one of the future leaders of this state and country, is being honoured in his home base. “He has served at the House of Assembly with a good track record. He has also served as a member at the House of Representatives. I searched for his records and observed that he served meritoriously.” Since we got into government, I can confirm that he has been doing his best for the government of Oyo State as DG of OYSIPA. “So, I want to beg our Kabiyesi to always honour people like Ogunwuyi so that they can encourage others to serve the state.”
Speaking on the zonal congress of the Peoples Democratic Party holding in Osogbo, Osun State, the governor said that Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja would equally emerge victorious in continuation of the honour done to Ogunwuyi. The Onpetu, Oba Sunday Oladapo Oyediran, Lagbami Osekun III, who spoke at the brief event, said that the governor had started well by delivering dividends of democracy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .