 [FILES] Danbatta  Development is essential and critical to the growth and sustenance of any country. In order to successfully enhance meaningful national development in all areas of the economy in Nigeria, effective strategies must be evolved. Hence, one of those strategies for national development is the deployment of broadband.  Collaboration with states
Collaboration with state governments has also seen the adoption of the N145/m or outright waiver Right-of-Way (RoW) by six governors, although, it must be mentioned that more needs to be done by the states and local governments to ensure full adoption and cascading of the decision for implementation. This notwithstanding, Danbatta said the commission will not relent in its effort towards addressing the issue RoW.
  
Further, while receiving the delegation of the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH), who paid him a courtesy visit at the Kano Zonal Office of the Commission at the weekend, Danbatta also stressed the importance of collaboration in ICT development.  Strategies to achieve the broadband plan
The minister said to achieve the broadband targets, the plan focused on recommendations in four focus areas, namely: infrastructure, policy, demand drivers, and
funding/incentives
  
Pantami said these focus areas are further broken down into 55 initiatives towards the actualization of the targets. (Infrastructure (Infrastructure- 14, Policy – 23, Demand Drivers- 12, Funding & Initiatives- 6).
  
According to him, infrastructure is focused on building integrated infrastructure that is sustainable and resilient to close the gaps in addressing the broadband needs of the country and is geared towards extending broadband services to underserved and under-served areas in Nigeria.  Funding/Incentives identify the relevant financial incentives, fiscal policy, economic models, and funding options to help the achievement of broadband penetration targets.
  
“The diligent implementation of the recommendations in these focus areas through a multi-stakeholder approach will give the country a push into economic prosperity and create opportunities for job creation and innovation that will influence the GDP positively,” he stressed. Operators’ readiness to collaborate
On their part, service providers see potential in stakeholders collaborating to push the objectives of the NNBP.
   
The Chairman, MTN Board, Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, said the private sector must be actively engaged in achieving the NNBP, because broadband remained the driver of economic growth and development.
   
Nduwke hinted that MTN Nigeria is doing everything possible as a private sector company to support the plans to achieve the goals of the new broadband plan. He added that government must work with all stakeholders to achieve the goals in terms of implementation.
  
He, therefore, stressed the need for the reduction of RoW charges by state governments and called on local government authorities to consider offering free RoW charges for the benefit of their communities. He further stressed the need for more telecoms infrastructure rollout by telecoms operators and the need for funding of broadband rollout in rural areas by the government.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .