The Ogun State Police Command says it has commenced discreet investigation into the gruesome murder of an hotelier, Kehinde Ibidunni and his wife, Elizabeth, in Atan – Ota in Ado – Odo/Ota Local Council Area of the state.
 
The 63-year-old man and his wife, 54, were reportedly shot dead by gunmen who broke into their residence at Atan – Ota in the early hours of Tuesday and gunned down the couple in quick succession.
 
It was learnt that the unknown assailants stormed their victims’ residence at No 15 Tella Ojo Crescent, Atan – Ota, around 3am, forcing their way into the house through a grille.
 
While they were forcefully gaining entrance into the compound, sources said a little girl living with the couple rushed inside to inform the hotelier in his room. The man reportedly came out to ask about their mission, but was in the chest and died immediately.  At about 3 am on April 27, the girl heard some people trying to gain access into the house through the burglary proof. She immediately stood up, went to my dad’s room, and called him that some people were trying to gain entrance. “When my dad showed up to ask about the people, they shot him in the heart straight up. So, he died instantly. After they killed him, they gained access into the house. They went into the room, they met my mum, they beat her, they stabbed her and finally they shot her.  Olayinka, who described his parents as peaceful and loving, hinted that the police have taken the corpses to the morgue, adding that the family has concluded an arrangement to bury the couple on Friday (Tomorrow).
 
“The police were around all through, they were even the one who took the corpses to the morgue. They told us that they have not laid their hands on any concrete evidence, but they are still trying to interview some people.”
 
The PPRO said no arrest has been made in connection to the incident. He said the Commissioner of Police has directed the state CID to take over the case
 
“For now what we are investigating is the case of armed robbery because after killing the man and his wife, they made away with an unspecified amount of money and some other items including phones. So for now we are investigating the case of armed robbery until it is otherwise proven.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .