 [FILES] APC Banner  The opposition party expressed disappointment that the country has lost a considerable number of valuable persons to insecurity, economic stagnation, and systemic failure because of the inability of the ruling elite to find the right solutions to Nigeria’s problems. According to ADC, a government that helplessly watches hundreds of its citizens being killed on daily basis does not deserve continuity. At a press conference addressed by its National Chairman, Ralphs Okey Nwosu, the ADC said: “The youths of this country have lost hope and confidence in the APC and even the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which have been in political power since the country re-embraced democracy 23 years ago.” The ADC lamented that despite the commitment of youths to uplifting Nigeria at various levels, political leaders, particularly in PDP and APC, have continued to frustrate them. “The youths in entertainment, films, music, and poetry, apart from being social influencers and crusaders, add more positive values and monetary resources to Nigeria’s economy than all the elected executives, legislators and their appointed minions at local councils, states, and federal levels put together.” Nwosu said that in appreciation of the commitment of youths across the country, ADC had offered free electoral tickets to some outstanding ones among them ahead of the 2023 General Elections. The party has also reserved six governorship tickets for Nigerians in diaspora who may have political ambition, particularly to become a state governor. The Nollywood stars include Tuface Innocent Idibia, DJ Switch, Ahmed Musa, and Omotola Jalade Ekeinde. “The Nigeria youths, women, men, and people with disabilities deserve our respect, and 75 per cent share of political leadership. To ensure that this happens, the ADC will be pleased to offer the Nollywood stars free ADC tickets to contest elections for any position of their choices” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .