Dr. Dre Denies Nicole Young’s Claim Of Domestic Abuse Dr. Dre is denying abuse claims from his estranged wife Nicole Young and alleges that she is using them as a strategy to get out of the prenup he insists is still in place. The 56-year-old hip-hop mogul filed new legal documents in his already nasty divorce with the 51-year-old mother-of-two as he claims that her abuse allegations are false according to a report from TMZ. The Still D.R.E. hitmaker, full name Andre Romelle Young, also accused Nicole of bringing up abuse claims in an attempt to squeeze money out of him as there is $1billion on the line. Dre was hospitalized for a brain aneurysm in January, he also believes that the claims are making the split stressful for him. The Beats By Dre founder also alleges that Nicole did not raise the allegations until after the divorce filing was made and had realized that the prenup would prevent her from staking a claim to half of his wealth. The documents also say that Dre claims Nicole’s allegations are not only false but also ‘appalling.’ He also denies her allegations that he had abused her even before they got married including the night before their actual wedding. Nicole also had claimed that he ‘forced’ her to sign the prenup which the rapper also denies. This has already been one of the most contentious celebrity divorces in recent memory as last month Dre requested for a judge to award him ‘single status.’ The music mogul’s attorney Laura Wasser had filed court documents ‘requesting a bifurcation of Dre’s divorce,’ which would declare himself and Young ‘single,’ as reported by TMZ. ‘Dre says his divorce from his estranged wife, Nicole Young, has gotten to the point of no return,’ the court documents read. Dr. Dre noted that his estranged wife’s recent ‘false allegations of domestic violence’ have left their relationship beyond repair. He also alleged in the court documents that he has ‘been trying to settle the divorce with Nicole since she filed in June 2020,’ but claimed she is purposely ‘dragging her feet.’ Wednesday’s filing comes just days after a judge denied a restraining order filed by Young against her estranged husband after a song released by the rapper prompted her to fear for her safety.