Flash Gas said it would begin conversion of cars to gas-powered engines from June to complement the Federal Government’s plan. The move is coming on the heels of the National Gas Expansion Programme (NGEP) set up by the government to drive gas utilisation and consumption in the country. The Chief Operating Officer, Flash Gas, Michael Nweke, said the company can convert about 30 cars weekly, noting that it would also partner with financial institutions to have a healthy amortisation scheme to make the conversion of vehicles pocket-friendly. Nweke, at the launch of its autogas station in Lagos, said the company has taken a bold step to set up an autogas station, saying that there is so much Nigeria can achieve with natural gas. “It is clean as there would be a significant reduction in greenhouse gases from burning natural gas. In the coming months, we will be within all the local governments in Lagos State, even as we plan to expand our operations. “We are going to have partnerships with financial institutions that will bring about a healthy, pocket-friendly process because it is not easy to cough out over N200, 000 to convert your engines, but that has been arranged for because there is going to be a very healthy amortization to make it pocket friendly,” he said. The Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor, Oluwatoyin Olayinka, stated that the NGEP would stimulate local and foreign investment in the gas sub-sector, stressing that the plan of the federal government to convert over one million cars in 2021 is achievable. He however urged transporters to convert their engines to gas-powered engines to enjoy the advantages that come with the initiative. He added: “Some people say we are too ambitious but I think it is achievable and doable because gas is available and accessible and Nigeria produces a whole lot of it. The Lagos State government is solidly behind us. Nigeria is a strong entity when it comes to gas production and I believe if we trickle down to autogas we would have achieved a whole lot of success within the next one year.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .