Kazeem Adekunle Kazeem Adekunle popularly knows as Kaziahh is a Nigerian lifestyle enthusiast with top-notch style and bizarre fashion sense, a philanthropist who loves to travel. But he’s more than that. Kaziahh is among the fastest-growing talent managers to look out for in the Nigerian entertainment industry. He’s currently handling the affairs of music star, McKay, putting a finishing touch to his album. In this interview with Soltesh Iyere, Kaziahh, speaks on his job, challenges, and the future of the Nigerian music industry. Tell us about your growing up and educational journey.
I was born on April 19, 1996, and I grew up in the semi-urban area of Otta, Ogun State in Nigeria into a family of five children, and I’m the 1st born. Having younger siblings has always instilled a level of responsibility into me from a young age. I later relocated to Canada at the age of 14. I attended Brampton Centennial High School, and I furthered my education at Sheridan College, while I am presently studying Nursing at Seneca College in King City. My educational journey has had good and challenging experiences. For the most part, my educational journey was positive. I only have a few memories that have been challenging at times. One of the most memorable experiences that I had was having perfect attendance. Being a 90’s kid I couldn’t have asked for better, witnessed the world change at a tremendous rate. Many discoveries, inventions, population boom closely to natural calamities. From a single landline phone in the society into multiple cellphones per person. From sleeping under a fan to a cozy split air conditioner. From family vacations to my first trip with friends. Growing up, I discovered that I liked helping people finding power within themselves, and it always gave me this sense of accomplishment. But amongst all of these one thing remained constant and that was and forever be the love and blessings of my family. You have been in the entertainment industry for a few years, how would you describe your struggle over the years?
I’ve been in the entertainment industry for 3 years, and it’s been a journey of ups and downs. Talent is all good, but proper branding of the talent is what will likely guarantee success. So from this short detail, you can decipher that it’s not an entirely smooth job without major obstacles. Who are some of the artists you’ve been able to collaborate on over the years?
Only McKay for now, had some couple of few, but our contracts ended. If you had managed all the guys you mentioned, why did you leave them?
Presently, McKay has been my major project. We agreed on a realistic long-term project that will enable us to achieve our goals and visions. What are you currently working on?
I’m currently working closely with McKay on an album which would be released in 2022. How did you end up with McKay?
We have been childhood friends, and I had done some side gigs for him which yielded amazing results. So we both agreed to solidify our relationship and I decided to go full-time pro in the business. When did you decide to become a talent manager?
That was 3 years ago. How would you rate yourself among other top artiste managers around now?
I rate myself highly considering the remarkable things we have been able to achieve within a short period of time. However, I never rest on my laurels, and I’m always looking to achieve more. What’s the difference between being a promoter and talent manager?
A talent manager is one who is generally concerned with everything that has to do with an artiste. He or she is tasked with making decisions ranging from contractual issues, bookings, promotions, endorsements and many more for the artiste while a promoter is solely concerned with the promotion of an artiste’s music or project. Who influences you in the music industry?
Quite a number but the ones that stand out for me are Asa Asika, Bose Ogulu, and Sunday Aare. What do you think the future holds for the Nigerian music industry?
The future is amazing. You can see the way Afrobeats is brewing. The whole world knows how big the sound is. Burna Boy just won a Grammy as well, and it’s evident of the remarkable progress we have made. With the likes of McKay, Fireboy, Rema, Joeboy, and many more, the future is definitely too bright. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .