Nigerian women have been urged to leverage opportunities in the digital space in order to address poverty and unemployment. Speaking at a United Nations Association of Nigeria (UNAN) virtual event which was held to mark this year’s International Women’s Day, experts in the business community disclosed there were several opportunities in the digital economy that women could leverage on. With the theme “Women in Leadership: Achieving an Equal Future in a COVID-19 World”, the participants also said the issue of gender equality must be addressed. In her keynote address, Chief Executive Officer, Future Soft, Nkemdilim Uwaje Begho, said the pandemic has resulted in digital transformation that girls and women can harness. According to her, “Nowadays, if you are not a digitally literate, you cannot be financial literate because all of the new investment opportunities and ways that money and investment are being managed are going to be digital in the next five years.” Continuing, she added: “This means that women need to start looking at how they can harness these investment opportunities within the digital economy such as equity crowdfunding, trading online both locally and internationally.” She noted that this is how you get the next job, political appointment, and next opportunity to be in leadership, “that is why we have to be very international about building our personal brands,” she said. President of UNAN, Joan Agha said IWD is a day to celebrate women’s achievements and a call to action, encouraging everyone to stand up for women’s rights and gender equality. Agha said gender equality means no matter your gender, you are granted the same rights, privileges, opportunities as everyone else. Similarly, a representative of Nigerian Association of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture Business Women Group (NAWORG), Angela Bamkole, on how women can navigate the new normal brought by the pandemic, opined that they should be goal-driven, passionate, mentally alert, ambitious, confident, innovative and be flexible. A representative of UN Women, Deodata Mukazariye, stated that this year’s IWD celebration emphasised the transformation in the power of women’s equal participation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .