 World Igbo Congress  Chairman, Board of Directors of World Igbo Congress (WIC), Prof. Anthony Ejiofor, and executive members have rejected Ebube-agu, the proposed security outfit for the region. WIC spokesman, Basil Onwukwe, in a statement yesterday, stressed that the governors needed to work for and earn the confidence of the Igbo citizenry to support the Eastern Security Network (ESN) and provide all that is necessary to make ESN a strong security outfit for Ndigbo. He alleged that the Fulani ethnic group was planning to make Nigeria a conquered Fulani territory, and urged southeast leaders not to be seen as tools in their hands. His words: “How do you expect the same people whose kith and kin hold the Sword of Damocles over our heads to be our defenders? That is antithetical. Governors beware of the Trojan horse. “Considering the foregoing, WIC rejects the Ebube-agu security outfit, following the circumstances surrounding the announcement after the bulge claim that ESN is involved in the prison break in Owerri, without evidence.” According to the statement, a genuine interest in the security of life and property in Igbo land should be an Igbo scheme. “WIC will not hold apologies in protecting our homeland when the national security operatives have failed to prosecute a captured Fulani bandit. More so, it is an abdication of our inalienable rights to self-preservation. “The southeast governors need to revitalise their justice departments and begin to prosecute violators of the open grazing law, by enforcing the laws in their book. It will help in checking the marauding Fulani herdsmen,” he added. WIC also urged southeast attorneys-general to sue President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Government for the lopsided appointments to top positions that have been cornered by the Fulani to the total exclusion of other ethnic groups. “This is a brazen and flagrant violation of the Federal Character clause of the 1999 Constitution. “The objective is to redress the imbalance, so that, in the future, security meetings such as the one held in Owerri (penultimate) Sunday will not look like a master-servant instructional session.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .