 Sule  Sule made this disclosure while inaugurating the state office complex of the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN) in Lafia. He urged the people of the state to take advantage of the edifice, considering the importance of the council to engineering, human and societal development. “Let me commend COREN for this laudable project, aimed at providing conducive working environment for the Council to enhance efficiency in the delivery of service in the state. “You will recall that the government of Nasarawa state donated this land for the construction of the secretariat complex of the council, because it attaches considerable significance to the engineering profession. “This is in furtherance of our collective commitment to stimulate the development of engineering as fulcrum for meaningful development. “Laying a solid foundation for socio-economic and industrial development of the State and the country at large is one of the cardinal focuses of this administration. “Let me, therefore, congratulate the President of COREN, our very own Engr. Ali Rabiu, for this feat. “Which is one of the reasons for our gathering to witness the commissioning of the state office complex of the council today. “The edifice will certainly provide conducive atmosphere for effective and efficient execution of the functions of the Council of Engineers in the state,” he said. Sule said that the establishment of the Faculty of Engineering in the Nasarawa State University, Keffi, would resolve the emerging challenges of the engineering practices in the state. “It would go a long way in enhancing the number of indigenous Engineers, and address critical issues related to technology and malfunctioning of equipment vis-à-vis quackery in the profession. “I urge the council to support the state university towards realising the objectives of establishing the faculty for the benefit of all. “It is my hope and expectation that the edifice will be utilised for the purpose it was established,” he added. Earlier, the President of COREN, Mr Ali Rabiu, said that the council would settle for nothing more than excellence in its practice. “COREN has come to stamp its feet and ensure zero tolerance in engineering malpractice. “With this commissioning today, the Engineering Regulations Monitoring (ERM) has got a central coordinating point. “Stakeholders have got a central point for complaints, requests and all other activities that will otherwise have taken them to Abuja,” he said. Rabiu expressed the council’s heartfelt appreciation to Sule for giving approval to this conspicuously positioned plot of land for COREN and for his continued support to the council in the state. The president reminded the governor of his promise of a Toyota Hiace 14-seater bus for use by the ERM for effective service delivery. In his vote of thanks, Prof. Joseph Odigure, the Registrar of COREN, appreciated the governor and other well-wishers for attending the inauguration of the edifice.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .