Wike. Photo: TWITTTER/GOVWIKE Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has restated that only the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders in the state will decide his successor, insisting no single person will decide where the party’s governorship position would be zoned. Wike made the assertion, yesterday, during PDP’s grand finale campaign for the April 17 council election. He said: “I don’t want to talk about politics of who is from here and who is not from there. At the appropriate time, the PDP family will sit down, the leaders of the party will sit down and look at everything together and then take a decision, not one man and even me as a governor cannot say this is where we are zoning it to. You cannot say that. It is not your father’s property. So, nobody should panic. It is not for one man who thinks he owns Rivers State. Somebody said he is going to give governorship slot to the Kalabaris. Now, it’s no longer to the Kalabaris, but to the riverine area.” He used the occasion to reiterate that the All Progressives Congress -(APC) led Federal Government has failed Nigerians by not keeping to its social contract with the people. Accordingly, he called on Nigerians not to listen any longer to empty promises of APC politicians, who made promises of ensuring that the naira and the dollar would be equivalent, create jobs for youths and contain insurgency, but failed to live up to their promises. In his goodwill message, Senator Lee Maeba noted Wike’s developmental strides in Ogoniland, urging the PDP chairmanship candidate to unify the party. The Senator representing Rivers South East Senatorial District, Senator Barry Mpigi, said the people of Ogoni are satisfied with the development put in place by Wike in Khana and the entire Ogoni. Also speaking, the House of Representatives member, representing Khana/Gokana Federal Constituency, Dumnamene Dekor said he is a living testimony of the governor’s developmental strides in Khana. PDP chairmanship candidate for Khana Local Council, Dr. Bariere Thomas promised to tackle the issue of insecurity, cultism, and establishment of ICT centres in the 19 wards of the council. High point of the campaign was the defection of former Deputy Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Dr. Befii Charles Nwile and his supporters from the APC to PDP. PDP State Chairman, Ambassador Desmond Akawor, received them.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .