 Fayose  It would be recalled that Arapaja beat erstwhile National Vice Chairman, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, in the controverted zonal congress held on April 12, 2020, at Osogbo, Osun State. However, there are concerns as to how Arapaja would unite the various interest groups within the party and present it as a united family, rather than what obtained during the December 2017 national convention. That was when Southwest lost the position of national chairman due to division among its faithful.  They expressed surprise at Fayose’s sudden about-face in accepting Makinde’s status as leader of the party in the zone at the last minute. At worse, it was generally anticipated that both camps would organize parallel congresses to present separate executives. The Fayose camp disappointed skeptics by refusing to challenge Arapaja’s victory in court and their last-minute’s association with the call to embrace unity. Yet, there is also the possibility that the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) and National Executive Council (NEC) might zone the post of national chairman to Southwest, especially if the Southeast insists on nothing but the presidential ticket in 2023. Could it then be that the sudden comradeship by Fayose to accept Arapaja’s emergence and accede to Makinde’s leadership was a ploy to curry their support for his undeclared interest to contest the national chairmanship when and if it is eventually micro zoned to Southwest. New Vista
A former member of the PDP Board of Trustees (BoT), Chief Ebenezer Babatope, in a recent statement disclosed that Southwest might not be desperate to contest PDP’s presidential ticket during the 2023 general election. Babatope however, noted Yoruba members of the party would support any candidate from whichever zone with what it takes to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Also, in a bid to forge a common front and make PDP more formidable in the Southwest, Fayose’s camp again met with loyalists within the week, with an unambiguous resolve to work with Arapaja-led zonal executive.
 
In a statement after the meeting, the Spokesman of the group, Mr. Lere Olayinka, said the stakeholders, drawn from the six Southwest states reiterated their commitment to peace and unity in PDP and enjoined stakeholders within the other camp to show similar commitment. Part of the statement read: “As committed stakeholders in the PDP, we have done what should be done after the congress by congratulating Ambassador Arapaja and extending hands of fellowship to him.
 
“To us, despite the flaws, we have accepted results of the congress and the onus is now on the other side to reciprocate our gesture.
 
“However, it is imperative that we point out to the party leadership, the ignoble role of the Congress Committee Secretary, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, who did not hide the fact that he was in the committee to do his usual hatchet job.
 
“We condemn Senator Samuel Anyanwu for his clear display of bias during the congress. But, for the honesty, sincerity, and steadfastness of the Deputy Governor of Benue State, Engr. Benson Abounu, who acted as the Congress Committee Chairman on behalf of Governor Samuel Ortom, the whole process would have been so crudely manipulated by Anyanwu.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .