 Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed. Photo: TWITTER/FEDERALMINISTRYOFFINANCE  Five days after Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, released a bombshell, saying Nigeria was in huge financial trouble after the Federal Government printed N60 billion as part of federal allocation distributed to states for March, the Presidency yesterday described the statement as complete falsehood. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, at a briefing after the 41st virtual Federal Executive Council meeting chaired by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, described the governor’s claim as very sad and untrue. According to her, monies distributed at Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) are revenues generated from the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Nigeria Customs, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), adding that revenue distribution is information that can be publicly accessed at the ministry’s website. “The issue that was raised by the Edo State governor, for me, is very sad because it is not a fact. What we distribute at FAAC is revenue that is generated and in fact, distribution revenue is public information. We publish revenue generated by FIRS, the Customs, and the NNPC and we distribute at FAAC. So, it is not true to say we printed money to distribute at FAAC. It is not true,” she said. The minister added that despite Obaseki’s alarm over the country’s rising debt profile, the nation’s debt was still within sustainable limits. “On the issue of the borrowing, what we need to do, as I have said several times, is to improve our revenue to enhance our capacity to service, not only our debt obligations, but the needs of running government on day to day basis. So, our debt, currently at about 23 per cent to GDP, is at a very sustainable level. You can look at all the reports that you see from multilateral institutions, those facts are stated.” ACROSS the world, many times, governments have two basic choices for financing their deficits: they can borrow (issue debt) or raise taxes. And with economists estimating that the coronavirus recession will cost the world’s governments more than $11 trillion, governments are looking towards a third option, which is the unconventional ‘ways and means’ of printing money. In a recent paper in the Yale Journal of Financial Crises, the third option was proffered where central banks were advised to consider bona fide debt monetisation – money printing – to help their governments cover some costs. Money printing, more technically known as monetisation or “money-financed fiscal programmes” occurs when the government finances itself by issuing non-interest-bearing liabilities. Those liabilities could be currency or they could be reserves that banks hold at their central bank. BUT despite the disclaimer, economists and financial experts have warned that Nigeria faces the risk of falling off the fiscal cliff if the Federal Government continues its reckless reliance on ‘Ways and Means’ to fund its widening deficits. The experts said Obaseki’s revelation reflects the sad reality of the economy and that the future appears increasingly bleak except the trend is reversed.
   
While every country prints money, the experts are concerned that with an inflation rate that is tending towards 20 per cent and extremely low productive capacity, the economy cannot absorb a reckless money supply expansion. 
   
Reacting to the controversy, Dr. Bongo Adi, an economist at the Lagos Business School, said it is difficult to determine the extent of mess Nigeria’s ‘Ways and Means’ financing has caused as nobody knows the amount printed so far. He, however, warned that the economy cannot bear an unrestrained expansion of the money supply, which he blamed for the current stagflation and associated challenges. He said Nigeria faces the risk of hyperinflation on a medium to long-term basis except the trend is reversed. “The economy is shrinking while the inflation rate is extremely high. There is also a high unemployment rate just as taxes are a serious burden. When you go ahead to print money, you are complicating the issue. That is what the current challenge has caused,” he said.  MEANWHILE, the Senate Committee on Public Accounts has summoned the Minister of Finance, Ahmed Zainab, and Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, over secret withdrawals of N7.5 billion from the two per cent National Automotive Design and Development Council Levy Account domiciled with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The report indicated that first N3.8 billion was withdrawn in two installments of N2.8 billion in 2005 and N1 billion in 2006. This was contained in the report of the Auditor-General of the Federation, which is being considered by the Senate committee, chaired by Senator Matthew Urhoghide. The second N3.7 billion, the report said, was withdrawn between March and December 2000 in three separate payments of N725 million, N1 billion and N2 billion. When the Committee asked the Director General of National Automotive Design and Development Council, Jelani Aliyu, about the withdrawal, he said the money was withdrawn without the knowledge of the agency. He said the Agency has been writing to the Accountant General and Ministry of Finance on the need to refund the money but there was no response. Apparently piqued by the development, Senate Committee on Public Accounts resolved to summon the Minister of Finance and Accountant General of the Federation to give explanation on the fund.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .