 Ayade  The first judgment confirmed the March 7 and 20, 2020 list of ward and chapter executives congresses released by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and signed by its National Organising Secretary (NOC), Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd), dated April 26, 2020, as authentic. The judgment also tends to give control of party structure at the ward and state executives level to National Assembly members and the stakeholders. But observers say Governor Ben Ayade appears not pleased with this development, being the leader of the PDP in Cross River. It is said that the governor believes that anyone in control of party structure may use it to determine who emerges as PDP governorship candidate, flag bearers for National Assembly seats and other offices come 2023. 
 
The second judgment gave victory to Mr. Jarigbe Agom Jarigbe over Odey. And keen followers of developments in the state said the judgment has further compounded Governor Ayade’s chances of easily getting back into the senate come 2023, because according to them, ‘Odey is only contesting the senatorial by-election as a proxy.’ The summation is that with Jarigbe sworn-in, and if he survives the by-election Petition by Joe Agi (SAN) of APC, he will rather stay put at the senate or negotiate with another person other than Ayade.
 
“Jarigbe will want to stay at the Senate because, for years, only the Yala and Obudu people have enjoyed the Senate. Bekwara produced Senator Kanu Agabi that lasted for about three months before he was made Minister but Ogoja, where Jarigbe comes from, has not produced a Senator before,” a competent source told The Guardian.  “Under my leadership, all Councillor seats, all state Assembly seats, all National Assembly seats, except one were won. So, it is not now someone will discuss what strategy and structure that is needed to win elections. But I am happy you have created an opportunity for resolution.”
 
Reacting to Ayade’s statement, Jarigbe, who represents Ogoja\Bekwara Federal Constituency asked: “How has my dear governor played politics with ethics? Is it by handing over the administration of the party to his younger brother, Frank?”  MEANWHILE, a socio-economic group in the state, the Cross River Southern Senatorial District Assembly (CRSSDA), led by its Chief of Party, Mr. John Offiong, warned that “top politicians in Rivers State and some other parts of the country should steer clear of Cross River politics as there are strong indications that such persons want to hijack the state come 2023.”
 
A prominent politician in the state and chieftain PDP, Mr. Victor Ekpo, however, pledged his loyalty to Ayade, saying that his people of Akpap-Okoyong ward headquarters of Akamkpa in Odukpani council would go with him if he decides to leave the party because of the injustice being perpetrated by the party.
 
Ekpo noted that some members of the National Assembly have been causing rift in Akamkpa ward with their so-called authentic list. “The only list recognised by the Akamkpa ward is the list from the state governor and the Ayi Etim Effiom-led exco remains the ward exco. The National Chairman and NWC of PDP should take note. The governor’s list is the only solution for PDP to remain in Akamkpa Ward.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .