Alhaji Falalu Bello The Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) has urged Nigerians to use this year’s Easter celebration to imbibe the culture of living in unity, and tolerance for one another. PRP’s National Chairman, Alhaji Falalu Bello, also admonished the citizens not to despair in the face of bad governance in the country that has lasted for long. The party advised Nigerians not to succumb to what it described as divisive tendencies of those entrusted with the leadership of the country. “We are all Nigerians and citizens of one Nigeria. We should be patriotic and tolerant of fellow citizens regardless of their tribe, religion, section or social class. As compatriots, we should always be encouraged by the biblical verse which preaches living with fellow human being with all humility, gentleness, patience and love. “Jesus Christ had lived in peace and harmony with his contemporaries and he advocated for that. Thus, it is incumbent upon all of us to live by his noble examples,” the party advised. Bello said that for over 60 years, Nigeria had been in bondage of saboteurs and buccaneers. “Nigerians have been choosing wolves in sheep clothing as leaders at various stages of our political life as a nation. “We have witnessed a lot of political manifestoes and manifestation of severity. Our agitation and desperation to break out of vicious circle of bad governance occasioned by our selfish leaders in the past had dragged us into quagmire of deception. “We are all aware of the current pack of wolves who came in the robe of messiahs to deceive us. We should not allow this negative experience repeat itself in the future. “Despite the aforementioned realities, it is unarguable that the beautiful ones are not yet born and our Moses has not yet come, but there is something sure and certain; we cannot remain in this fog of insecurity, poverty and penury forever facilitated by the misrule of the current and previous administrations. “Although, we know that truly the past and current governments had done enormous harms to our nation than good, we still urge fellow Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of love demonstrated by Jesus Christ and always express concern for the pains of the vulnerable and victims of this aimless government,” PRP said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .