Ghana Actress Akuapem Poloo Granted 80,000 Cedis Bail An Accra High Court has granted bail to the tune of ¢80,000 (#5,657,529.44, $13,9000) to actress Rosemond Brown, known as Akuapem Poloo on Wednesday. This bail is pending an appeal against her 90-day jail sentence for posting a naked photo of herself on social media beside her son. As part of her bail requirement, the court ordered Akuapem Poloo, to report to police twice a week, and to hand over her passport to the registrar of the court. She can travel only with the court’s permission. Speaking on why she was granted bail, the judge confirmed it is because she was a young first-time offender who had shown remorse and had pleaded guilty. The court also considered the welfare of her son when deciding to release her on bail. The court further said the applicant has satisfied the four grounds of bail pending appeal. The Accra Circuit Court last week handed the actress a 90 days jail sentence for posting naked pictures of herself and her son on social media. In the photo, posted last July to celebrate her son’s seventh birthday, she is crouching, facing the boy and holding his hands. He is wearing underpants. Her breasts are hidden by her long hair. The image when viral and there was a huge backlash online. The actress, who often posts photos of herself with her son on social media, apologised, but was invited for questioning by the police. Handing down the sentence, Judge Christiana Cann said the jail sentence would serve as a deterrent to the general public given increasing levels of moral decadence in the country. The sentence divided the country with some describing it as harsh, whilst some were of the opinion that the sentence was perfectly okay for the offense committed. Celebrities like Tonto Dikeh, and Sarkodie said the court sentence was not okay considering the fact that she is a mother. The application for bail was not opposed by the state who were present in court represented by Senior State Attorney Selasie Kuwornu.