•••As Olurode Honours Customary Court of Appeal President President, Customary Court of Appeal, Osun State, Justice Wasiu Oladejo Akanbi (left); his wife, Dr (Mrs) Adejoke; Justice Ayo Ajekigbe; Chairman, Afenifere Renewal Group, Wale Oshun; Olufon of Ifon, Oba Adekunle Olumoyero; Senator Adelere Oriowo; founder, The Wings School, Prof Lai Olurode at 2021 Distinguished Role Model Award of The Wings School, Iwo, Osun State. PHOTO: NAJEEM RAHEEM<br />  This also came as a former National Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),  Prof. Lai Olurode said the country needed to be restructured. The trio spoke during the 2021 Distinguished Role Model Award of The Wings Schools, Iwo,  Osun State bestowed on Justice Oladejo Akanbi, who was recently elevated to the rank of President of the Customary Court of Appeal, Osun State. The event attracted many royal fathers, prominent sons and daughters of Iwo, members of bench and others. A Professor of Sociology at the University of Lagos, Lai Olurode said he organised the event for the awardee because they were childhood friends, to celebrate his elevation and to encourage young ones to see him as a role model. Speaking on the state of the nation, Prof. Olurode emphasized that the country needed to be restructured, saying:” I believe in the restructuring and the constitution of the country. We need to rewrite that Constitution. That constitution is enslaving, unhelpful and cannot take us to the promised land and we need to get to the promised land. But we are not failing because of a Hausa man or a Fulani man or we won’t succeed just because a Yoruba is there. What is the philosophy, ideology of the man?  If someone like Jakande wakes up from his grave to contest,  I will be glad to support him. Balarabe Musa, Sam Mbakwe and great people of blessed memory we have them. What I  think the present government needs to do to redeem is for President Buhari to urgently ensure that everybody from whatever part of the country you are from, you have an equal political chance of being recruited into government and he should look for the best across the board. Nigeria must give equal chance to everybody.” The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba  Abdulrasheed Adewale Akanbi who was the royal host warned against the breakup of the country. The royal father said:” Those clamouring for Oduduwa Republic, if that is granted, the Ijebu will also clamour for their republic and other Yoruba sub-units would also clamour for the same thing. The whole thing will break up. Our father Wale Oshun,  let us work for this country to remain one. You know what you suffered for the unity of this country and democracy. You know how Chief Obafemi Awolowo struggled for this country. There is unity in diversity. We must not allow the breaking up of this country. Let’s develop this country. There are certain things that must  be put in place before seeking self-determination.” The monarch added that this would enable the Yoruba to be part of the leadership of the country. He urged justices to continue striving for justice. On his part, the lawmaker representing Osun West senatorial district in the National Assembly, Senator Adelere Oriolowo, said there was hope in the co warning against the disintegration of the country. The senator said: ”There is hope for us. I don’t believe that disintegration is the solution to our problems but I believe that justice and fairness are what we need.” The Chairman of Afenifere Renewal Group and chairman on the occasion,  Hon. Wale Oshun, harped on the need to work harder to preserve the unity of the country, adding that there was a need to respect the diversity of the country. He congratulated the awardee on his promotion. Responding, Justice Akanbi said he would not do anything to undermine his oath of office. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .