 Buhari. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV  Like a repeat of the 2016 and 2018 era when many states were unable to pay salaries and the Federal Government also got financially strained from paying subsidies, a new rift is set to occur over plans by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to recover N614 billion budget support facility (BSF) advanced to states, amid dwindling revenues and continued payment of subsidies on fuel and electricity.  Already, consumers of electricity and experts are reacting to the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) plans to effect a tariff review. In its notice issued April 26, 2021, NERC had stated: “This notice is issued to inform the general public and industry stakeholders of the commission’s intention to conclude the Extraordinary Tariff Review process for the 11 DisCos, commence the processes for the July 2021 Minor Review of MYTO – 2020 to consider changes in inflation, foreign exchange, gas prices, available generation capacity, and CAPEX required to evacuate and distribute the said available generation capacity in accordance with EPSRA and other extant industry rules.” But an energy analyst, Dr Bala Zaka, stated: “Increasing the cost of basic infrastructure like electricity and burdening an already hungry, stretched and jobless set of citizens, can never lead to economic growth, liberation or freedom. Nigeria is a third-world country but people stylishly describe it as an emerging economy. It’s a pure lie; Nigeria is a very poor country with decayed infrastructures and a weak economy.” Also, in a letter addressed to NERC, Mr. Kunle Olubiyo, President, Nigeria Consumer Protection Network, stated: “We are constrained to write you and crave your indulgence to calm down. The timing of another increase in electricity tariff in Nigeria is ill-advised and unacceptable to electricity consumers.”
   
Professor of Economics and former President/Chairman of Council of Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), Segun Ajibola, expressed worry about the state of the economy of most states of the federation, describing it as still in tatters. According to him, even with the FG/CBN bailout facilities, most of the states are unable to pay salaries and allowances regularly and talk less of the provision of other services. 
   
“The sudden withdrawal of the facilities or forced payback by states still under the pangs of COVID-19 would bounce on the welfare of the people and quite devastating for the citizenry already under the weight of galloping inflation and rising unemployment,” he added.
   
The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) argued that accelerating the pace of recovery requires both fiscal and monetary policymakers to be well-coordinated in promoting growth-enhancing and confidence-building policies that would encourage private capital inflows into the economy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .