• Savours religious harmony in Kogi The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has directed Nigerian Muslims to look out for the moon of Ramadan 1442AH from today. Ramadan is the ninth month in the Islamic calendar and the compulsory fasting month in Islam. Abubakar gave the directive yesterday in a statement signed by the Chairman, Advisory Committee on Religious Affairs, Sultanate Council, Sokoto, Prof. Sambo Junaidu. The statement read in part: “This is to inform the Muslim Ummah that from Monday, April 12, 2021, which is equivalent to 29th day of Sha’aban 1442AH shall be the day to look for the new moon of Ramadan 1442AH. “Muslims are, therefore, requested to start looking for the new moon and report its sighting to the nearest district or village head for onward communication to His Eminence. Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) has urged Muslims to use the Ramadan period to pray for Nigeria, as the country battles insecurity and the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19). Director of Administration, NSCIA, Zubairu Usman-Ugu, in a statement yesterday, advised Muslims in the country to be vigilant and take extra measures to protect themselves and their loved ones. The Sultan has also expressed joy over the inter-religious harmony in Kogi and urged other Nigerians to emulate the Kogi example. He gave the commendation when he inaugurated a 1,800-seat capacity Anyigba Central Mosque built in Dekina Local Council by former governor of Kogi, Ibrahim Idris. The edifice, built on a 1.3 hectares of land, has an auditorium, offices, 30 male and 50 female toilets and a school. Speaking at the inauguration, the Sultan, who heads the Islamic Supreme Council in the country, urged well-to-do individuals to see building mosques as a way of moulding spiritual characters of coming generations. SIMILARLY, the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) has called on the Consumer Protection Council (CPC) to check commodity price hike before, during and after the forthcoming Ramadan. In a statement yesterday, CNG’s spokesperson, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, frowned on the traders’ tendency of exploiting the citizenry at times of need such as the Ramadan. The coalition, while applauding the gesture by the Chairman of BUA Groups, Alhaji Abdussamad Rabiu, to sanction any dealer that hiked the price of essential commodities allocated by BUA, urged the CPC to imitate the Kano State Anti-Corruption Commission. It noted that any form of price hike at this period is an ungodly action, which might expose worshippers and the general public to severe hardship. “We find the Kano agency’s action in warning marketers against such exploitation very proactive and BUA’s sanction threat commendable and humanely considerate. “As we pray for improved peace in the country, we warn all potential exploiters of our resolve to assist in enforcing the Kano and BUA directives, while calling on Muslims to offer prayers for the leadership of the BUA Group,” he said. Describing the situation in which Nigerian Muslims would want to exploit their brethren at such sacred periods of worship as the Ramadan and Sallah as regrettable, he said the anomaly has, over time, been extended to other festivity periods. “For the avoidance of doubt, we hereby reiterate our solid support for the Kano Commission and BUA’s action and encourage other manufacturers to emulate them. It is only the ungodly that would enjoy making capital at the expense of the larger society during such periods, he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .