The much desired Team Qhubeka ASSOS (www.TeamQhubeka.com) replica team jersey is now available for purchase (https://bit.ly/3nqL12u). With every jersey purchase, 10% of the sale price goes directly to the Qhubeka Charity.  The Qhubeka hand is proudly and prominently worn on our Team Qhubeka ASSOS jersey in over 70 races, spanning 270 race days a year and broadcast around the world, sharing our message that #BicyclesChangeLives. The hand is symbolic of the Qhubeka Charity logo – illustrating that bicycle beneficiaries are receiving a hand up in their lives, and not a handout. On the collar of this iconic jersey, the Ubuntu philosophy – “I am because we are” is found. A philosophy which has been adopted and shaped the culture within the team. With 10% of every jersey sale going directly to the Qhubeka Charity, the sale of this jersey is call for all team supporters to put their hands up and effect meaningful change in the world. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka ASSOS. Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About Team Qhubeka ASSOS:
Team Qhubeka ASSOS is a purpose-led, high-performance team, fighting to win on the world's biggest stage, to inspire hope and create opportunity. Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka ASSOS (formerly NTT Pro Cycling) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in six Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. There are 19 nationalities represented across our World Tour and continental feeder team rosters. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage, since the team's inception. We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 30 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .