 Members of the Kings Troop Royal Horse Artillery ride their horses into the grounds of Windsor Castle in Windsor, west of London, on April 15, 2021, following the April 9 death of Britain’s Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, at the age of 99. – Prince Philip’s funeral will take place at St George’s Chapel, Windsor Castle on Saturday, April 17. (Photo by JUSTIN TALLIS / AFP)  As young boys in 1997, the pair provided the most poignant image of their mother Princess Diana’s funeral as they walked, heads bowed, behind her coffin. Prince Philip, also known as the Duke of Edinburgh, accompanied them, alongside their father Prince Charles and uncle Charles Spencer. Their grandfather’s funeral, at Windsor Castle at 3 pm (1400 GMT) Saturday, is the pair’s first reunion since Harry’s shock move to the United States last year. It will be closely watched for signs of strains in the sibling relationship, with confirmation they will not walk shoulder-to-shoulder and instead be separated by cousin Peter Phillips likely to fuel speculation that a rift persists. The brothers have reportedly fallen out over Harry’s departure from the royal frontline and move to California with his wife, Meghan. When the coffin, to be carried on a bespoke Land Rover designed to Philip’s specifications, arrives at St George’s Chapel, William will move ahead of his younger brother as the royal mourners enter in pairs. The procession elements were among the eagerly-awaited details released by the Palace ahead of the service, which has been curtailed due to coronavirus restrictions. – Sibling ‘space‘ –
Philip died last Friday at the age of 99 and Britain has this week been observing eight days of official mourning in the build-up to his burial. Just 30 guests will be permitted at the 50-minute funeral, in line with government regulations. Attendees including the queen, 94, will be required to wear face masks, sit apart and observe Covid-19 social distancing rules. She will be accompanied to the venue in the state Bentley by a lady-in-waiting, before sitting alone in the chapel. Heir to the throne Charles, his wife Camilla, and the monarch’s three other children and eight grandchildren, as well as all their spouses, will be present. Other guests include the children of the queen’s late sister Princess Margaret, and three of Philip’s German relatives — Bernhard, the hereditary prince of Baden; Donatus, prince and landgrave of Hesse; and Prince Philipp of Hohenlohe-Langenburg. Countess Mountbatten, Penelope “Penny” Knatchbull, who was Philip’s carriage driving partner and one of his closest friends, is also invited. Prime Minister Boris Johnson opted against attending to free up space. The palace confirmed royal mourners will wear civilian clothing — men in morning coats with medals, women in day dresses — which reports said was to avoid awkwardness over which princes are entitled to military uniform. Harry conceded in his bombshell interview last month with US chat show host Oprah Winfrey that there was “space” in his relationship with William, 38, who is second in line to the throne. There have long been reports of a rift since 36-year-old Harry married Meghan, also at St George’s Chapel at a glitzy ceremony watched by millions in 2018. In their sit-down with Winfrey, Meghan, who is mixed-race, sensationally claimed to have encountered racism within the monarchy, while Harry said William and their father were “trapped” within the institution. – Coverage complaints –
Send-offs for senior British royals are typically very public, pomp-filled affairs, but Philip’s request for a no-fuss funeral paired with the pandemic has kept it minimal. “The ceremonial aspects of the day and the funeral service itself are in line with The Duke’s wishes and will reflect His Royal Highness’s personal and military affiliations,” the palace said. Ahead of the service the coffin will be covered with Philip’s personal standard flag and surmounted with his sword, naval cap and a wreath of flowers. Members of the Queen’s Company, 1st Battalion Grenadier Guards, will serve as pallbearers, while his coffin will be lowered into the Royal Vault afterwards. In honour of his life-long association with the Royal Navy, and service during World War II, buglers from the Royal Marines will sound like so-called “Action Stations” during the service. The soundings, played on a warship to signal all hands should go to battle stations, is sometimes featured at funerals of naval men. Philip was a rising star in the British navy who had reached the rank of commander by the time Elizabeth ascended to the throne in 1952. He eventually shelved his personal ambitions to support his wife in the role. A small choir of four will also sing pieces of music he chose. The details emerged Thursday as the BBC said its coverage Friday of his death had drawn 110,000 complaints, the highest number ever published for television programming. The broadcaster cleared its schedules across its main BBC One and BBC Two TV channels to run a series of special programmes, as well as devoting its news channel and radio stations to coverage. “We do not make such changes without careful consideration and the decisions made reflect the role the BBC plays as the national broadcaster during moments of national significance,” it said in a statement.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .