 PHOTO CREDIT: Fatuma’s voice  For very young children, encourage them to ask for permission before showing physical affection, even if it’s a hug. They should also not be forced to receive affection from someone, even if it’s a family member if they don’t want it. A child should be taught to respect the power of the word, ‘No’. When someone tells them to stop doing something, they need to immediately cease their behaviour. Encourage them to say no, as well, and continue saying it, loud and clear. If their friend doesn’t honour their decision, tell them that it’s okay to not want to spend time with that person anymore. Children should understand the importance of ‘gut feelings and respecting their instinct. Let your child know that sometimes, we can feel weird inside and when we sense that a person or situation doesn’t feel right, even if we can’t really say why. It is absolutely good to always listen to that inner voice because as human beings, our brains are wired that way in order to protect us from danger. Hence, relying on your instinct is a better way of staying safe. As your child gets older, especially from age three, you can get more specific about their sexuality and consent. Teach them that consent means asking for and waiting to hear a ‘yes, this does not mean continuing to touch someone sexually until they hear the word ‘No’. They might roll their eyes at you or say they already know it all, but remember, by continuing to talk about it, you are normalising the discussion of consent, which will help them actually have that discussion in a potentially critical moment. For children older in middle and high school, you can use examples from movies and television programmes to discuss what healthy sexuality really is, and how consent is often inaccurately portrayed. There should be detailed discussions about how to identify and respect a person’s non-verbal communication. At every opportunity, reemphasize and reinforce what you have taught about respecting a person’s ‘no.’  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .