A new sports betting outfit, Booster99.com, says it is entering the industry to develop the country’s betting market and provide the best user experience of fun-filled online betting to its punters. According to the firm, the plans are to raise the bar and be 99 times better in all its activities, as well as provide a world-class, streamlined, and hassle-free betting experience to sports lovers in Nigeria. Speaking during a virtual press briefing yesterday, Booster99 said it was introducing “a trusted gaming brand for Nigerians, offering online services nationwide. They hold an NLRC license and are fully compliant with all regulations in the country. “Booster99 offers more sports, more leagues, more matches, more markets, and more options than any other betting company,” the outfit said. Booster99’s Gaming consultant, Morten Foght, said one of the distinct features of the new outfit is its Sportsbook, which he described as an easy-to-use platform, which allows punters to register, deposit money, place bets, and collect their winnings seamlessly via desktop, mobile and older feature phones via its mobile lite version, and soon even via SMS and USSD. Foght said; “Our mission at Booster99 is to be 99 times better in everything we do – Booster99 is here to put the punter in focus.” We offer 250 per cent Welcome Bonus up to N500, 000 on first deposit and 255 per cent accumulated bonus on 30 selections ticket, cashout, instant payout, cut one, highest odds and the list just goes on and on.” Morten hinted that “there are many online betting sites who promise many things, but beware not all of them are true, as not everybody can have the highest odds or the fastest payout, etc. Booster99 does not claim any of this, our
aim is to prove to be 99 times better by action and allow the punters to do their own comparison and make their own conclusions. “With Booster99, you are choosing one of the most secure online betting sites in Nigeria. This is made possible with advanced and cutting-edge technology like SSL with firewalls and well as cutting edge algorithms to ensure the highest level of game security.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .