 JUSUN workers protesting  Background
The Executive Order mandated the Accountant-General of the federation to deduct at source, the amounts due to state legislatures and judiciaries from the monthly allocation to each state, especially for states that refuse to grant such autonomy.  The Presidency, JUSUN, PASAN and other Nigerians perceived the development as a way to further encourage separation of powers among the three arms of government at the state level. But, it was not so with the governors. They saw it as a breach and attempt to encroach on their powers.
 
The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, shed more light on the Executive Order. He said it compelled the 36 states to include the allocations of both the legislature and the judiciary in the first-line charge of their budgets.  Battlegrounds
SOME of the governors’ grouses over the Executive Order was its ‘hasty’ issuance, which according to them would derail the collaboration between the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF)-led by Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi and the Conference of Speakers of State Houses of Assembly. Both bodies had earlier set up a committee to work out modalities for autonomy in early 2020 just before the Covid-19 pandemic crisis set in.
 
Governors from opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), specifically accused President Buhari of trying to use the Executive Order 10 to subvert the Constitution with a view to caging them (governors).
   
The governors also faulted the Order, claiming only an amendment to the 1999 Constitution could have guaranteed autonomy for state legislatures and judiciary. They claimed that the Executive Order does not have legislative force and therefore constitutes an encroachment on relevant laws stipulating the disbursement of funds from the Federation Account. One of the governors then described the Executive Order as being more of a military decree.
 
Despite the governors’ fury, the Presidency stood its ground.  President Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Niger Delta Affairs; Senator Ita Enang confronted the governors, stressing that Executive Order 10 is meant to give effect to the provisions of the 1999 Constitution. Enang added that it also outlines the procedure and process for the implementation of Constitutional provisions for the autonomy of state legislatures and judiciaries, which was passed by the 8th National Assembly and signed into law by the president.
   
Enang maintained that signing Executive Order 10 was even more necessary in managing the independence of each arm of government at a time of Coronavirus pandemic.  Road to Executive Order 10
IN December 2018, President Buhari set up a Presidential Implementation Committee on autonomy of state legislatures and judiciaries, following series of complaints on how the governors were muzzling both arms of government by depriving them of financial autonomy.	 
   
The committee tasked to drive the actualisation of the autonomy granted the legislature and judiciary at the state level in the 1999 Constitution, was chaired by Malami, with Senator Ita Enang as secretary.
 
Other members of the Committee include, the Chief Judge of Kogi State, the late Nasir Ajanah and his Bayelsa State counterpart, Kate Abiri as representatives of state judiciary, the Grand Khadi of Gombe State Sharia Court of Appeal, Khadi Abdullahi Maikano and the Acting President of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Customary Court of Appeal, Abbazih Musa Sadeeq.
 
Also, represented on the committee were Speakers of State Houses of Assembly, the President of the Nigerian Bar Association, JUSUN and the PASAN.
 
Buhari, while inaugurating the committee, said it was to ensure that the independence of the judiciary and legislature at the state level is maintained. The president insisted on his administration’s commitment to strengthening the country’s democracy by ensuring separation of powers among the three arms of government, even at the state levels. PASAN, JUSUN protests
EXACTLY a year after the states refused to implement Executive Order No. 10, on March 24 2021, PASAN declared nationwide strike over the non-implementation of financial autonomy for state legislatures as contained in the Executive Order.  Speakers’ input
REACTING to PASAN’s protest, the 36 Speakers of State Assemblies during their first quarterly meeting in Bauchi, said they were ready to activate the attainment of financial autonomy. However, their sincerity on the issue was in doubt, since a majority of the Speakers were more or less stooges of the governors.
 
In a communiqué after the conference, the Speakers said they set up a Constitutional Review Committee, which terms of reference include, articulating and submission of the inputs of the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria in the ongoing review of the 1999 Constitution.
 
As the dust of PASAN’s protest was settling, JUSUN kicked off a nationwide peaceful protest on April 19 to further press home its demand for financial autonomy for the judiciary.
 
The two bodies, with the backing of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) have since begun a dialogue with the various governors on how to implement Executive Order 10 and achieve financial autonomy. Stakeholders’ reaction
EVER since the battle for fresh air by JUSUN and PASAN broke out, Nigerians have been reacting. For instance, a Professor of Political Science at Bayero University, Kano, Kamilu Sani Fagge, said the governors could not be totally blamed, stressing that available indices have shown that many state legislators prefer being subservient to the executive than to reclaim their constitutional rights due to greed.
 
Professor Fagge said: “The agitation was right, especially given that we are now operating a presidential system of government, and one of the fundamental aspects of federalism is the independence of the three arms of government, which is expected to ensure effective checks and balances in governance.
 
“By implication, the legislators are now at the mercy of another independent body, thereby truncating their rights. By Constitution, the legislature are entrusted with responsibilities including making laws, approving the expenses and appointment of the executives, oversight function, which is very important and again, they carry out public hearing on public issues.  From Enugu State
But, a former Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly, Chief Eugene Odoh, stressed that implementing the law in various states would enhance the work of the legislature.
 
Odoh, a two term Speaker, noted that the law, which had been assented to by President Buhari was being frustrated by actions of state governors, in a bid to control the state Assembly.
 
He noted that some lawmakers would not agitate for its implementation, so as not to offend their governors, adding, “they will prefer to beg him to fund their activities to be seen as loyal members. Don’t also forget that majority of them have no bill to their name except the ones from the executive.”  ON his part, Saheed Adekeye Popoola, who represents Balogun/Ojomu Constituency of Offa, Offa Local Government Area (LGA) of Kwara State blamed governors for being responsible for the lack of financial autonomy of the legislative arm at the state level.
   
He blamed state governors for using the non-implementation of the Executive Order to whittle the powers of the arm of the state arms government and make it an extension of the executive. Lawyer’s perspective	
In his contribution, a legal practitioner, Mr. Kayode Ajulo, said: “As a concerned member of the Bar, a labour leader and an advocate for the enthronement of rule of law and justice, I am compelled to pensively and dispassionately analyse the issues at hand and lend my two cent, while admonishing JUSUN to cease fire.
 
“As a prefatory note, there is no gainsaying that the cause of members of JUSUN is not causeless as the same is an echo of the extant provisions of the Constitution. It must be noted that the benchmark for the assessment of any democratic government is the independence of its judiciary.	 
   
“This is because democracy is built on the twin doctrines of separation of powers and the rule of law. This is why the Constitution clearly delineates the powers of each of the three arms governments and also provides instances where they work together. Anything short of these instances is tantamount to rule of arbitrariness, which is frowned upon by all democracies in the world.
 
“It is interesting to note that the provisions of the Constitution are clear to the extent that the Judiciary both at the Federal and State Level shall be independent. A careful perusal of Section 81 and 121 of the Constitution will reveal that the burden of the welfare and maintenance of judges is placed on the National Judicial Council and not on the governors.”	 
 
He laid emphasis on Section 121(3) of the 1999 Constitution, which provides that, “any amount standing to the credit of the judiciary in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the State shall be paid directly to the heads of the courts concerned.”  He cautioned JUSUN leaders to look inward and consider a more beneficial approach to ensure that their demands are carried out “by these erring governors” and not allow the same to inimically affect the fundamental rights of the citizens and the confidence reposed in the judiciary by members of the society. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .