Lizzo Shares Unedited Nude Photo To Launch Dove Body Confidence Campaign Lizzo has partnered with Dove on a new campaign to encourage women and girls to embrace body positivity and form healthier relationships with social media. To break the news of this partnership, the singer took to Instagram to share an unretouched nude photo. In the caption with a nude image of her sitting gracefully while holding a coffee cup, she wrote: I wanna give y’all this unedited selfie… now normally I would fix my belly and smooth my skin but baby I wanted show u how I do it au natural. I am excited to be partnering with @dove and the #DoveSelfEsteemProject which is helping to reverse the negative effects of social media and changing the conversation about beauty standards. The Grammy-Award-winning singer has long been the queen of body confidence, through her music and constant social media posts. The campaign, which launched with the unveiling of a powerful Reverse Selfie video, is focused on encouraging parents to have the “selfie talk” with their children – opening up conversations about using social media in a way that doesn’t negatively impact their mental health. The campaign is part of the #DoveSelfEsteemProject, which is centred on “transforming social media into a more positive and empowering place for the next generation”. The aim is to tackle unrealistic beauty standards that are reinforced by social media feeds flooded with digitally enhanced images. While these images can have a negative impact on people of all ages, it seems that young girls could be the most susceptible, with research from Dove finding that 80% of girls had used a filter or photo-editing app to change their appearance by the time they turned 13. Explaining why she was so keen to get involved in the campaign Lizzo said: I love how this generation is so creative in the ways in which they express themselves. It’s really inspiring to see how people are taking their identity and their beauty into their own hands. However, people are struggling with their self-image and self-confidence more than ever. This is amplified by the increasing pressure to show a digitally distorted version of ourselves, reinforcing the idea that our beauty in real life is not good enough or worthy of likes. That’s why The Dove Self-Esteem Project and I want you to have The Selfie Talk with a young person in your life. It’s happening to young people everywhere, so let’s talk about it.