Ayodele Fayose Oyefusi decries poor women representation in new executive
A group in the South-West Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) loyal to the former Governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, has expressed appreciation to the Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC), delegates and other stakeholders, who attended the party’s zonal congress in Osogbo, Osun State. In a statement yesterday, Spokesman to Fayose, Mr. Lere Olayinka, said the group would meet with stakeholders next week Tuesday to have a holistic review of events before and during the congress, adding: “We will remain resolute and committed to the PDP and its ideals.” The group said the exercise should be seen as a victory for the PDP, the delegates, especially those 330 who voted for Dr. Eddy Olafeso. IN another congratulatory message, former candidate for PDP Lagos East Senatorial District, Abiodun Oyefusi, commended the process but expressed dismay that it did not give adequate preference to women participation despite the passing of the 35 per cent affirmative women representation agenda. She said: “Women deserve equal access to political leadership positions as men and need to be supported by affirmative action. It is saddening that our party did not give women, especially Lagos women, equal access in the just-concluded congress. I regret what I described as unfair domination of the political space in PDP by men. Women are not well represented in the so-called executive.” ALSO, former Deputy National Chairman of the PDP, Chief Olabode George, said the zonal congress had injected and infused a new mandate of hope and renewal, not only in the party, but also across Yorubaland. In a statement yesterday, George said the exercise had affirmed the party’s commitment to peaceful engagement even when there are disagreements. According to him: “It has shown that disputes and differences need not fester into violence and communal disruptions. “Yes, democracy is about the pitting of ideas, the grappling with conflicting views and interests. But in the end, there is always an arrival at a consensus building, the initiation of compromise and the settlement of rifts through the pacific largeness of the ballot box.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .