Iyabo Ojo and Yomi Fabiyi Popular Yoruba Actor Iyabo Ojo has lambasted Yomi Fabiyi over the comments he made on social media sympathising with Baba Ijesha who has been arrested for allegedly molesting a 14-year-old girl. His post came after police revealed in a statement that Baba Ijesha confessed to the crime and was caught on CCTV. Yoruba actor Yomi Fabiyi released a post asking his colleagues not to jump to conclusions. He went on to demand evidence first. In the Instagram post, he wrote:   A post shared by Yomi Fabiyi (@realyomifabiyi)  This did not go down well with so many in the industry. Earlier in the day, Comedienne Princess released a video where, with tears in her eyes, she expressed how sad she felt that Yomi was requesting for the CCTV footage. According to Princess who is the foster parent of the victim, Baba Ijesha first assaulted the girl sexually when she was 7. Another time, he is said to have penetrated her with a key. The victim opened up about the incident recently at the age of 14 when a video of Yomi acting with Princess showed on their screen at home. At this point, Princess said she put up a CCTV camera in the house and alleged it captured Baba Ijesha in the act. She says that when he was confronted, he confessed “4 times” and blamed the devil. After this video by Princess, Iyabo Ojo took to her Instagram page to address the issue and respond to Yomi Fabiyi. Watch the video below:   A post shared by Olori Alice Iyabo Ojo (@iyaboojofespris)  Yomi and Iyabo’s posts have generated lots of reactions on Twitter, some are below: Princess didn’t come out until people started to sow doubts. Not many people knew that her daughter was the victim 7 years ago and now again. It’s so laudable that Iyabo Ojo is standing by her. We all should. Victims/Survivors should be supported, meaningfully & loudly. — Queer Lives Matter. ALWAYS (@duchesskk) April 28, 2021  Jokes apart, Iyabo Ojo asked a question that I think everyone should ask themselves before saying “calm down” in this kind of situation. What if the victim is your ward, what if it’s your kid, what if it’s your sister, what if it’s your niece? You go calm down? Reason am bro — HAPPY KID (@TheAjibolaGrey) April 28, 2021  Iyabo Ojo is not going through corners to abuse them. She’s abusing them straight! A Queen! — ……… (@marrgarritah) April 28, 2021  Iyabo ojo is dragging yomi fabiyi by his balls and I’m here for it . Noticed how most of these yoruba celebrities are silent about the baba ijesha case, even their elders lol, maybe they’re scared someone might call them out for same crime. — Area mummy  (@_Nuola) April 28, 2021  That yomi fabiyi deserves to be dragged to the end of this earth, na fool. Iyabo Ojo is doing a perfect job. — ᴋᴏʟᴀ• (@Kolade_OG) April 28, 2021  WHY is Iyabo Ojo still the only one talking?? Why??? If it was your child or ward would you keep quiet or sit on the fence?! Jesus Christ I’m so upset — Ope Baby (@SwitOpe) April 28, 2021  If not that majority of them in that Yoruba movie industry are mad. Iyabo ojo shouldn’t be the only one talking about this. — TBillion (@Tbillion40) April 28, 2021  I like how Iyabo Ojo is speaking about this Rapist called Baba Ijesha and Rape apologist Yemi. Because left to that yorubawood, They’ll sweep it under the carpet and still welcome that rapist in their midst.
Irritants. — • (@Yesitsjael) April 28, 2021 