Akpabio Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio’s purported emergence as leader of Akwa Ibom State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has split the party in the state. Chairman of the state chapter, Dr. Ita Udosen, faulted the decision of the Sam Ewang’s group for proclaiming Akpabio as the leader of the party. Udosen insisted that the decision of the Ewang-led group to name Akpabio leader of the party was illegal and of no effect since he lacked the powers to convene a stakeholders meeting that party organs boycotted at all levels in the state. He argued that only a duly constituted party executive at all levels was empowered by the party’s constitution to organise any meeting and in accordance with constitutional provisions. Udosen, who spoke in company of members of the State Working Committee, said: “Ewang does not have the powers to convene a stakeholders meeting of APC and where he attempts to do so, whatever resolutions reached at such meeting is a nullity. “Members of the public and the party should ignore him and continue to support the party. There is no provision in APC Constitution for party leader. Such appointment by one who has no powers is a nullity and an affront on the party’s constitution, which the party will address.” Udosen said he was impressed at the acceptance Akwa Ibom people had shown in the party’s registration and revalidation exercise, adding that more members of the public have registered making it strong and very close to its goal of taking over power in 2023. “So far, the party has recorded about 706,000 members so far in Akwa Ibom State. By the time we are done with sorting of party registration and revalidation, which just ended, we may reach an 800,000 members in the state,” he said. He pointed out that the issue party leader became rampant in the press during the week, saying in August 2018 when Akpabio defected to the APC, Adams Oshiomohle announced him as leader of the party, insisting that party stakeholders rejected the decision at a meeting in Don Etiebet’s residence. “They said Oshiomohle acted in error and without consulting them. The meeting resolved to retain Etiebet as leader of the party in Akwa Ibom State. Akpabio seems not to be comfortable with the arrangement and after his appointment as minister he has been scheming to take over the office structures with a view to exercising control over party structures and critical stakeholders,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .