President Muhammadu Buhari. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV • Benue sues for international intervention
• Yobe strategises with security agencies to fight terrorists Leaders of the Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) have asked President Muhammadu Buhari to resign from office if he cannot end kidnapping, as a student of Greenfield University killed by kidnappers was buried yesterday. There was wailing among hundreds of mourners who attended the funeral of a 300 level female student of the university, Dorathy Yohanna, at the ECWA Goodness Church, Kaduna State, where clerics and relations to the deceased urged the government to save Nigeria from the hands of terrorists. The Assistant General Secretary of ECWA, Rev. Samuel Atu, lamented that the federal and state governments folded their arms while the country burnt. Atu, who lamented the helplessness of government over the present security challenges in the country, remarked:
“If Buhari cannot solve the problem of insecurity bedevilling the nation, he should humbly step aside.” AS communities in Benue State continue to witness myriad attacks from marauding herdsmen, the state government has called on the international community to intervene, as well as provide relief for the people affected. Executive Secretary of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Dr. Emmanuel Shior, made the appeal yesterday, following Tuesday’s attack by herdsmen on one of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps where seven persons were feared killed. Shior stated that the appeal became necessary to reduce the humanitarian crisis in the state. He lamented the inadequacy of policemen in some of the camps and appealed to the Federal Government to deploy more policemen to the state, to assist secure the people living in the eight designated IDP camps. His words: “I want to use this opportunity to appeal to the Inspector General of Police to further appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to provide more policemen to the state to help secure the IDP camps.” MEANWHILE, the Yobe State Government has strategised with security agencies to fight Boko Haram terrorists that destroyed many lives and property. The strategies were unfolded on Tuesday in Damaturu in a seven-point communiqué issued after an expanded joint security council meeting at Government House. The communiqué signed by Special Adviser on Security to the Governor, Gen. Dahiru Abdulsalam (rtd.), disclosed: “Nothing is more important to Buni than ensuring the safety and security of the people of Geidam and other parts of Yobe.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .