The Uganda women rugby teams got back into action over the weekend with Northern and Eastern region playing on Saturday 24th April 2021 while Central Region teams played on Sunday 25th April 2021. With two rounds played, Kitgum Queens, Black Pearls, Mbale Eagles and Blue Whales top the table in their respective categories.  Round two of the Central Region 10s was hosted by Black Pearls at Kings Park in Bweyogerere with participation from 7 teams. (Lady Swans, Blue Whales, Black Diamonds, Black Pearls, AQRA, Avengers,Thuderbirds) Charlotte Mudoola of Black Pearls and Bushira Namutebi from Black Diamonds emerged the golden boot winners for the tier 1 and 2 categories respectively. The top try scorers from the central region tournaments were Ira Isabella from tier 2 and Charlotte Mudoola from tier 1. The Northern region had their first round of the 10s in Kitgum on 24th April 2021 at Bomah grounds featuring Kitgum Queens, Gulu Sprinters, and Lira Matarix. Kitgum Queens won the tournament and Adongpiny Mercy was the MVP. The Eastern region featured four teams; Bumageni, Bugema, Mbale Eagles and Nyondo. Mbale Eagles emerged victors of this tournament with 9 points followed by Bumageni with 7 points. Coming in the third place is Nyondo(5points) followed by Bugema(3 points) ‘’Last weekend’s performance from all teams was exciting and there’s great improvement in the second round compared to the first one. The future of women’s rugby is indeed secured and this only means we will have to emphasize continued participation of these teams to keep them in the sport. We also encourage clubs to take up the spirit of organizing tournaments for the betterment of women’s rugby in Uganda.’’- Beatrice Atim, Women’s Rugby Development Officer The final circuits of these regional games will take place on Saturday 1st May and Sunday 2nd May,2021. The Northern regional 10s will be hosted by Lira Matrix on Saturday while Avengers will host the Central region 10s at the Busambala grounds on Sunday 2nd May. Lastly, the Eastern Region games will be hosted by Nyondo on Saturday 1st May.  Eastern Region Table Standings Mbale Eagles-9pts Bumageni-7pts Nyondo-5pts Bugema-3pts Central Region Table Standings Black Pearls-6pts Avengers-4pts Thunderbirds-2pts Tier 2 Blue Whales-12pts Lady Swans-10pts Black Diamonds-8pts Ewes-6pts AQRA-4pts Northern Region Table Standings Kitgum Queens-6pts Lira Matrix-4pts Gulu Sprinters-2pts Aduku Tigers-0 Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Uganda Rugby Union. Media Contact:
Rugby@APO-opa.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .