 Sister Virginia giving testimony after being healed of eight years of fractured leg.  Time waits for no one. Hence, whenever an opportunity presents itself for anything, whosoever has the capacity should immediately cash into it and make the best use out of that chance. Time lost is never recovered, and under no circumstance would the hand of the clock reverse. Once the clock ticks, that time has gone forever. As the sun rises and sets, the day passes by and the year comes and goes. God has made it thus and it remains so. Hence, man should be conscious of time by doing things accordingly. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes 3:1-8, To everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven: 2 A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted; 3 A time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up; 4 A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance; 5 A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing; 6 A time to get, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away; 7 A time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak; 8 A time to love, and a time to hate; a time of war, and a time of peace. Sister Faith thanking God for healing her of kidney problem.  However, God loved man and does not want him to perish. In a bid to bring man back to Himself again for eternal life in heaven, God decided to bless man again by introducing His only Son that through Him salvation by grace will be made available to man. John 3:16-17 say, “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 17 For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved”. The coming of our Lord Jesus Christ is a time of another different blessing from God. Our Lord Jesus Christ came with both spiritual and material blessings for mankind, only on the condition that one must believe in the sonship of Jesus Christ and His sacrificial death on the Cross of Calvary. Prior to the advent of Jesus Christ, the world was awash with all kinds of sinful activities. The people of the world had lost bearing, in terms of their relationship with their Creator, God the Father. He came for the lost and perishing souls. That is why the Bible says in Luke 19:10, “For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost”. This is the time of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. This is the time you open your heart to accept Him as your Lord and Saviour. He is currently knocking at the door of the heart of every man, seeking permission to enter to grant you the salvation of your soul. From the time of the first coming of our Lord, Jesus Christ to the time He will come in His glory to rapture the saints, salvation is by grace. The Bible says in Ephesians 2:5-8, “Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;) 6 And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus: 7 That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. 8 For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God”: This is time salvation is by grace; it is a gift from God. Till one dies, salvation by grace is available to every man. One should not hesitate in accepting Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour before the rapture takes place. After the second coming of the saints, when the saints must have gone with our Lord Jesus Christ, salvation then will be by the person’s own blood. One must understand it is not easy to be a tribulation saint. It is better to repent now and go by rapture. Again, it is important to note that it is impossible for everybody to be alive till Jesus comes to rapture the saints. There is opportunity of repentance for everyone till death, after which the grace is taken away, as there is no repentance in the grave. This is time of repentance and preparation for the second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. So, make hay while the sun shines. Be always watchful, and ensure you are serving God with all your heart, so that when the trumpet sounds, you will be among the saints that will go on rapture in Jesus name. Testimony Of The Lord’s Doing

Seven Years Of Prostitution
Jettisoned For Christ
“But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you,” (Matt. 6:33) THE devil does not plan anything good for the people of God, but God’s intervention cancels the devil’s plan and gives us life in abundance. God’s intervention in my life helped me to stop the evil work of prostitution and made me give my life to Christ. My parents rejected me and that opened the door for me to go into that illicit business. It happened that my parents sent me out of the house at the age of 13 on the ground that the man l called my father claimed he did not father me. According to my mother, she was already pregnant with me when she got married to the husband. After they got married, she gave birth to me. They brought me up to the age of 13 when the man decided to discontinue housing and training me. Both the man and my own biological mother threw me out of the house Thereafter, I became homeless and helpless. In my frustrated state, a girl called me and suggested that both of us should go into commercial sex work since according to her, I had no house to stay in and nobody to help. In that state, l could not think of any other option than to go into prostitution. Both of us covenanted to go into the business, and she sponsored our travel expenses. We went to Port Harcourt. She also paid for the initial hotel accommodation, but I refunded her when I started making money.  Later, circumstances beyond my control made me leave Port Harcourt for Lagos, where I stayed in Phase 11 Hotel, Ajegunle, near Boundary Bus Stop. As my profile was growing in the profession, I started nursing a plan to travel to Burkina-Faso for the same work. While the preparation for travelling was in top gear, I met one brother who is a member of The Lord’s Chosen Charismatic Revival Movement. His name is brother Martins. He preached the message of salvation to me and in the course of my interaction with him, he learnt of my plan to travel to Burkina-Faso. He told me that the trip would not favour me, since the purpose of the trip is against the Will of God. He urged me to repent and give my life to Christ. He invited me to worship at The Lord’s Chosen. One Sunday, I followed him to The Lord’s Chosen service, where I heard the message of salvation preached by the Pastor. After hearing the message, I repented and gave my life to Christ. Now, I have said goodbye to prostitution. Now, l reside in Cotonou (Republic of Benin) and work with a woman in the park. I am grateful unto God for my salvation. To God be the glory!
Sister Patience. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .