The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), yesterday, berated the Nigeria Broadcasting Corporation (NBC) for suspending Channels Television over alleged breaches, insisting that it was an attempt to suppress the Nigerian press. It described the suspension as “an attempt to block global viewers from having access to the atrocities being committed against Nigerians, especially the Igbo. In a statement issued by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, the group warned that Federal Government could not suppress the truth as far as IPOB was concerned, maintaining that it would always put the records straight and that the facts would always speak for themselves. It argued that the move further confirmed its position that Nigeria was under a tyrant, whose mission was to actualise a Fulani agenda of Islamising the country. “The attention IPOB led by Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has been drawn to the recent pronouncement by the NBC that it suspended and fined Channels Television N5 million for broadcasting an uncensored telephone interview with Emma Powerful. “We are not surprised but along with all good men and women of conscience, we strongly condemn, in the strongest possible terms, this wicked and undemocratic action,” it stated. “How many times has the Islamic cleric, Sheikh Gunmi met terrorists and bandits, and the outcome of their meeting aired on national television without NBC batting an eyelid? How many times have the Boko Haram leader, Abubakar Shekau’s message and threats been aired uncensored on national television without NBC imposing any sanctions on NTA?” it asked. He lamented that after spreading falsehood on how it murdered Imo State Commander of the Eastern Security Network (ESN), Ikonso, IPOB was contacted to put the records straight, after which all hell broke loose at NBC. “The bitter truth the Nigerian government didn’t want people to hear, which IPOB disclosed in the interview, was that Ikonso was murdered in his father’s house and not in any imaginary ESN camp or battlefield, as the liars would make us believe. “The Army, Police, and DSS in Imo State that never arrested or prosecuted any herdsman ravaging the state and providing cover for terrorists and bandits before Ikonso intervened had the guts to ambush and kill the only man that drove terrorist herdsmen out of Imo State,” the statement reads. The group pointed out that its members were not Miyetti Allah followers and they don’t kill or attack innocent people, but Fulani herdsmen masquerading as cattle breeders in South East forests. It insisted that this was ESN’s mandate and the cause for which Ikonso, who is described as “a hero and gallant, patriotic Biafran,” and his men were murdered in cold blood. “Ikonso was only defending the land of his ancestors. He was murdered with the connivance of Governor Hope Uzodinma, George Obiozor, and All Progressives Congress (APC) politicians in Imo State,” it added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .