 Solomon Ojigiri  According to Jeremiah 17 verse 9, “the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, who can know it.” That is an absolute truth. Walking in lies and deceptions is nothing but gross wickedness. Jeremiah 48.10 even said, “cursed be he that doeth the work of the Lord deceitfully.” There are some who use diabolical powers today and they call it the power of God. Today, we hear of so-called men and women of God paying people or hiring people to testify on their altars, so as to project them as powerful men of God. 2 Corinthians 11 verses 13 says, “For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ.” Today, there are false prophets, false teachers, false apostles, and even false brethren. Some who claim to be children of God today are mere churchgoers. Some only use the church as a camouflage. Thank God, for the Bible says that by their fruits, you shall know them. We must know the fruits to watch out for. Unfortunately, many only reduce everything to dressing and physical appearance. I used to know a woman many years back who would not perm her hair, no jewelry, no lipstick, and no powder. She would not open for business on Sundays. She would rather give it to you free of charge if you want to buy anything from her on a Sunday. But we never knew she was a witch who had killed and destroyed many lives until she confessed. I have seen men in courtship with several ladies. They would promise to marry all of them when he can only marry one wife. It is unfortunate that some ladies also do that. We must not just pray for a man or woman to marry, but a faithful one. Proverbs 20 verse 6 says, “Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness; But a faithful man who can find?” That is what you need, a faithful man or a faithful woman. However, you must also be a faithful person. Rev. Solomon Julius Ojigiri, Everwinning Faith Ministries Int’l. 73/77, Everwinning Faith Avenue, White Sand, Isheri Osun, Festac Extension, Lagos. 08023997277 or www.everwinningfaithministries.org or www.solomonojigiri.org To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .