 Motorists queue in a traffic gridlock in Lagos, Nigeria, on April 20, 2021. – Nigeria’s economy was already struggling with a fall in the price of oil, Nigeria’s major export, and a weak local naira currency before the global pandemic struck.<br />Now Nigeria’s inflation has soared to a four-year high of more than 18 percent in March 2021, with food prices up 22.9 percent, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  There are more worries as efforts to restore sanity to Oshodi-Apapa Expressway and Apapa ports have proved futile despite the introduction of an electronic call-up system known as ETO.
   
Stakeholders have also lamented that two months after the implementation of the system, there seems no end in sight to Apapa gridlock as container-laden trucks and tankers have continued to park indiscriminately on port access roads.  Stakeholders told The Guardian why the Apapa gridlock has defied electronic solutions, as the situation worsens daily. Amid total neglect and nonchalant disposition to duty, motorists, commuters, and truck drivers in Apapa environs have called for immediate intervention by Lagos State Government over the dilapidated road and poor traffic management along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, Mile-2 Tin can Port access road. The call came following two weeks of agonising gridlock that has subjected road users to untold hardship, crippling business activities as well as danger to lives and property. ETO has collapsed completely as operators abandon the system, parking indiscriminately on the road. The improvised opening at the road median by Otto Wolf, along the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway has compounded the gridlock, as vehicles struggle to pass through as the only way out and into the port access roads, coupled with several ongoing road rehabilitation in the axis. Seizing the opportunity of the situation, traffic robbers in possession of dangerous weapons, daily rob motorists and commuters of their valuables day and night. And despite several public complaints and calls for help, there is no police team patrolling the area giving the robbers, confidence, and space to operate at will.
  
The President, Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), Remi Ogungbemi, lamented that there were irregularities and corruption in the e-call up system. He accused the police and NPA of frustrating the smooth operation of the system through extortion, saying Apapa traffic had become a commercial entity for some people benefitting from the situation.  He alleged that the NPA refused to engage critical stakeholders in finding solutions to the menace, but engaged those without ideas of the challenges or business at the port.
   
A source at NPA, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed that the e-call up system, had been hampered by tank farms and petroleum products tanker drivers that blocked all the access roads.
   
He said the approach road to Apapa port, from Ijora, Eric Moore, Mile 2, Coconut, Sunrise, and other areas had been taken over by tanker drivers.  THE Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala-Usman, while inspecting ongoing road construction at Tincan Island Port on Saturday, told The Guardian there were complaints over the slow road construction that’s limiting the success of the e-call up system and efforts to address the gridlock.
   
She said there is the need to visit the port corridor to discuss with contractors.  She said the contractors needed to work towards timelines.
   
Bala-Usman charged the contractors to extend work hours to weekends, public holidays, and nights to ensure roads were completed soon.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .