   According to Oladiran, one of the kidnapped victims, who was said to be a student of Royal Institution of Health and staff member of Olugbon Hospital, has been in captivity. It was gathered that the kidnappers had established communication with members of Miss Sodirat’s family, demanding N1.5 million for her release. Oladokun said: “Going by their accent when they spoke with the lady’s family, they are Fulani people, but they are being very reserved in their communication as they are not letting out much of information. “Miss Salami Sodirat is a student of Royal Institution of Health, which is at Eruwa; she also works at Olugbon Hospital at Igboora. So, it means she goes to and from Eruwa to Igbo-Ora. “She was kidnapped on April 7, 2021 alongside two other people. Ransom has been demanded and negotiation has been made with the kidnappers.” However, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Olugbenga Fadeyi, said it was an unsuccessful kidnap attempt. Fadeyi said: “The kidnap was not successful. There was an attempted kidnap that did not come true. I am in contact with the DPO.’’ In another development, One Ahmed Saka, reportedly set ablaze the room of his ex-lover, Mutiat Oladele, on Wednesday night at Shogoye, Idi-Arere area of Ibadan, Oyo State. The act led to the death of the woman and her two children. It was gathered that Mutiat and Saka were lovers before they broke up. Saka had allegedly threatened to end his life and that of Mutiat for ending the relationship with him, and he eventually set the house abalze at midnight. Three other children also sustained varying degrees of injury as a result of the fire. The children were taken to Anglican Diocese Hospital, Molete, Ibadan. The man later died in the aftermath of the arson. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Olugbenga Fadeyi, confirmed the incident. Fadeyi said: “They are concubines. The man went to set the house of his ex-lover ablaze because the woman said she was no longer interested in the relationship. “The woman and her two children died as a result of the incident. The man that set the house ablaze died later, while three other children sustained injury and are being treated at the hospital. Further investigation is going on.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .