 J. A. Shodeinde<br />  Jesus the Son of God Who came to deliver the world from death and bondage suffered a lot. He was highly persecuted. Many Christians who experience the freedom of religion may find it difficult to relate or understand what persecution looks like, at the moment. Those who have been in an environment where there’s no freedom to worship and live out one’s faith can understand how horrifying persecution can be. Christians are bound to face persecution. “And you shall be hated of all men for my name’s sake: but he that endures to the end shall be saved” (Matthew 10:22). According to the word of our Saviour, even though there’s persecution, there’s going to be victory and salvation at last. The early church was persecuted. Apostles of Christ were martyred. Stephen was stone to death. Many Christians departed Jerusalem to avoid lurking dangers, but the church of God kept marching on and the kingdom of hell could not prevail against it. Today, persecution persists, because as the early church was a threat to evil men, so is the church of today. There could be greater persecution for Christians because we are in the End Time, and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ is imminent. According to Jesus in Matthew 5:10-12 “Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.” Jesus says blessing is ours and we have a greater reward in heaven. According to apostle Paul in Romans 8:18 “For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us.” The rapture of the saints is a great event that believers must not miss. Believers who miss rapture will experience a period of great tribulation. The persecution, which will be experienced at this period, is far greater than the former. It will be a period of great distress for Christians left behind. Let’s adjust our ways, let’s put away sin and all forms of ungodliness because the coming of our Lord Jesus is at hand. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .