 Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (left); wife, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo; First Lady, Hajia Aisha Buhari; and All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader/chairman of the occasion, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, during the presentation of a book titled,  “Aisha Buhari: Being Different” and authored by Dr. Hajo Sani, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja…yesterday.  According to him, Hajia Buhari has regaled the Nigerian public with many firsts, including opening up her office through social media outlets and connecting with the public in real-time. He said: “Dr. Hajo Sani has written a most engaging book on an incredibly fascinating person, Her Excellency Aisha Buhari, Nigeria’s First Lady. It’s unlikely that any First Lady in Nigeria’s history has, in such a few short years, captured the imagination of Nigerians as profoundly as Aisha Buhari. “She’s, of course, the first First Lady to be on Twitter, on Instagram and other social media platforms, getting her unfiltered views across to the Nigerian people and she’s probably the first to receive, in real time, the opinions of Nigerians on her views. “With her views, forthright, crisp, truthful and once in a while controversial, she has established an ongoing conversation with the Nigerian people. The issues that concern them most, the issues that concern us the most, good governance, security, putting food on the table, education of our children, prompt payment of pensions to army veterans, drug abuse, violation and victimisation of women and every once in a while, she airs her own personal struggles, her annoyance, in a manner, probably unprecedented in the role of the First Lady anywhere.” Osinbbajo added that even her husband, President Muhammadu Buhari, once described the celebrant as “kind-hearted.”
ALSO, chairman of the occasion and All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, described the President’s spouse as the voice of conscience in the presidency. He observed that her “sterling contributions during the 2015 campaign culminated in the then candidate Buhari’s eventual victory and the current functioning of the presidency.” Tinubu submitted that Mrs. Buhari had been playing unifying roles, adding: “She has been a voice of conscience calling us to be our better selves for the good of the nation and for the betterment of the weakest and the most vulnerable among us.” He continued: “As such, she has been a strong pillar of support not only to the President, but also to the Nigerian people whom they both serve with such patriotic commitment and high purpose.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .