The Ogun State Police Command has said it is on the trail of unidentified gunmen who abducted a medical doctor, Oladunni Odetola, and a nurse identified as Mrs Bamgbose in Imeko area of Ogun State. Though, there was no hint on the development as at Wednesday night, The Guardian learnt the incident has created apprehension around the area. Odetola, the head of General Hospital, Imeko, Imeko-Afon Local Council and the nurse were reportedly kidnapped along Abeokuta-Imeko road while driving in a Toyota Camry (Muscle) marked KTU 584 FR. The gunmen, it was gathered, emerged from the bush at Olubo village to attack their targets. Sources told our correspondent that the victim’s car was left at the middle of the road, where it was discovered by the police. It was further gathered that the police had recovered the doctor’s Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) identity card and a minute of the association’s meeting in the vehicle. It was also gathered that the front passenger-side tyre of the vehicle was punctured, while the windscreen was perforated. A source told our correspondent that two empty shells of AK-47 ammunition were seen at the scene of the incident. The state chairman of NMA, Ogunlaja Oladayo, confirmed the kidnap. “Yes, it is true. But we have allowed the security operatives to do their job. We don’t want anything to jeopardise the process,” he said. The spokesman of the Ogun Police Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who also confirmed the abduction, said the “police detectives are on the trail of the kidnappers.” In recent time, cases of kidnapping are becoming a common place in the state. Recall that recently, a community leader in Imope, Ijebu-North Local Government, Chief Tajudeen Omotayo, known as Alademeta, was kidnapped. The abductors reached out to his relatives and demanded N100 million as a ransom. Just last month, two students of Olabisi Onabanjo University, Yewa Campus, Precious Adeyemi and Abiola Oyefule, were abducted while returning to their hostel. A 25-year-old woman, Mariam Fagbohun, was abducted by a six-man gang in Ijoun, Yewa North local council area, which led to the subsequent murder of her 50-year-old mother.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .