The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) has said its yearly employer’s excellence award has been established to celebrate organisations that have implemented policies, systems, and processes that create and sustain enterprise competitiveness, productivity, industrial peace, and harmony. Director-General of NECA, Dr. Timothy Olawale at a press briefing yesterday, said the objective of the excellence awards, which is first of its kind, was to celebrate the resilience and doggedness of Nigerian enterprises and to encourage best practices and responsible enterprises for others to emulate. He said through such exposure, employers would have an extra channel of enhancing their brand profiles as leading and responsible employers in Nigeria, thereby, contributing to economic prosperity and industrial harmony in Nigeria. He said the awards would be sector-based with a winner emerging from each sector of the economy, while the employer of the year would be selected from the winners by a panel of jury and judges. The criteria for the awards, which is slated to hold on May 26, 2021 in Lagos, include leadership and governance; innovation, productivity and corporate performance; effective human resource management and industrial relations; technology optimisation; occupational health and safety; inclusiveness and diversity as well as responsible business conduct/ corporate social responsibility. As part of benefits, Olawale said participants and winners would gain a major mileage that would be created by the foremost Employers’ Award in West Africa, and would also display in their branding and premises the ‘Employer of the Year’ tag in various categories for a period of one year. He said all participating employers would receive individual reports on their scores in the survey, which would yearly assist companies to assess their processes and practices. He added that all organised businesses in Nigeria are eligible to apply, noting that the awards portal was opened for entries. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .