Full view of Palau Malakal Island and Koror – World heritage site – Palau is remote and mostly untamed, it is these attributes that make it one of the world’s last unspoiled natural beauties. The island country which contains over 500 islands is located in the western Pacific Ocean. The country uses the United States dollar as its currency. The islands’ culture mixes Micronesian, Melanesian, Asian, and Western elements. Visitors to the country can receive a free 30-day tourism visa on arrival. Marshallese, Micronesian, and US/American Samoan citizens do not require a visa to enter Palau for up to a year. Citizens of Israel do not require a visa for up to 90 days. Things to do in Palau
Scuba-diving
Enjoy Palau’s many and varied dive sites – considered some of the best in the world – including the famous Blue Corner. Other top sites are Ngemelis Wall, aka the Big Drop-off; the German Channel, known for its manta rays; Siaes Tunnel, an underwater cavern where white-tip reef sharks are common; and Chandelier Cave, where underwater chambers filled with stalactites. Therapeutic mud bath in Palau’s Milky Way
The Milky Way, located in the rock islands of this Micronesian country, is known for its therapeutic properties. Locals claim that bathing in the white limestone mud found on the water’s floor will make you look ten years younger. Visit Thousand Man Cave
On the northern outskirts of the Klouklubed village, Thousand Man Cave refers to a maze of tunnels and chambers built by the Japanese during WWII. The Americans encountered a great deal of trouble penetrating this cave system to dislodge the 1000 or so Japanese who refused to surrender – they resorted to blocking up the exits, leaving only two open, and using flame-throwers and explosive charges to force the remaining Japanese out. Swim amongst golden jellyfish
Jellyfish Lake, located amid the interior of Eil Malk island, is a marine body thanks to its connection to the ocean through a series of tunnels and fissures. It gets its name from the massed bloom of golden jellyfish which makes this a real highlight of any visit. The unique jellyfish migrate en masse through the lake’s waters every day. And this simple energy-driven migration makes for a spectacular sight for those swimming in the waters. Visit Ngardmau Waterfall
One of Babeldaob’s premier attractions, Ngardmau Waterfall flows from Palau’s tallest peak, 217m-high Mt Ngerchelchuus. It’s the tallest waterfall in Micronesia. It can be accessed on foot – a tough but rewarding 20- to 30-minute hike along a jungle path – or, for the less energetic, by a clunky monorail. Culture
Cultural activities are held regularly, such as the annual Olechotel Belau Fair and twice-monthly Night Markets, which involve Palau’s sixteen states representing their unique qualities through dance, chanting, arts and crafts, specialty dishes, and much more. The Palau Women’s Conference is another important annual event led by Bilung and Ebilreklai, the high-ranking traditional matriarchs of Koror and Melekeok, together with the women throughout Palau. Taste of Palau
Palau has its own cuisine, for instance, a dessert called Tama. Palauan cuisine includes local foods such as cassava, taro, yam, potato, fish, and pork. It is also influenced by the neighbouring Philippines’ cuisine, notably on its Asian-Latin dishes. Fruit bat soup is a commonly referenced Palauan delicacy.