Kanye West Seeks Joint Custody In Divorce Case Kanye West is seeking joint legal and physical custody of his four children with Kim Kardashian, according to a report by TMZ. The rapper’s response to Kardashian’s February divorce filing is “basically a mirror image” of his estranged wife’s petition, according to the site, which noted that the joint custody doesn’t necessarily mean a 50/50 split of North, Saint, Chicago, and Psalm. Additionally, given the reports that West and Kardashian, 40, are each sitting comfortably in the billionaire realm, the 43-year-old “Jesus Is King” performer also asked the court to waive its ability to award any spousal support or attorneys fees to either party. West has requested that Kardashian not be at the couple’s home whenever he visits the children, and “even before Kim filed for divorce, Kanye changed his numbers and said, ‘You can contact me through my security,’” according to Page Six. West and Kardashian had a prenup in place, making their split “an easy case of ‘You keep your money and I’ll keep mine.’ It was previously revealed that their relationship was reportedly strained after the designer and mogul announced his 2020 run for president. During his campaign, West told an audience that he and Kardashian considered abortion early on in their relationship at a rally in South Carolina. Shortly after, West went on a Twitter rant stating he wanted a divorce. He also shared unsubstantiated suspicions that Kardashian cheated on him with rapper Meek Mill when she attended a prison reform event. He also posted a series of tweets, later deleted, that accused his wife and mother-in-law of trying to lock him up and suggested he was seeking a divorce. Kardashian called on the media and public to show “compassion and empathy” following her husband’s erratic behavior. It is the first divorce for West and the third for Kardashian, who came to fame with the US reality TV series “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” which followed the lives of her family members in Los Angeles.