Catch Up On The Trendy Stories Of The Previous Week A mix of oohs and ahh’s with a dash of disappointment was the recipe used to create last week. From taking over the stages to struggling to remain a mensch, to praying for “just a day more”. What’s My Name? DMX
Supporters and family of the hardcore rapper DMX [real name: Earl Simmons] chanted his name and offered prayers at the New York hospital where he has remained on life support following a heart attack. The crowd outside the hospital called, “DMX! DMX!” and when urged to by the principal speaker, crossed their arms in the shape of an X. Vigils have been held since it was declared he is in a “vegetative state” having suffered “lung and brain failure”. However, substance abuse has been a struggle for him since he was 14. Sometime in Rome
Freedom is relative and the emirate of Dubai is proving this after it will deport several people arrested for public debauchery after a naked photoshoot. Photos and video footage posted online last week showed at least 18 foreign women posing naked in an apartment in the Dubai Marina area. Dubai police issued a statement on Saturday that a group of people who appeared in an “indecent video” shared online were arrested. It warned that such behaviour was “unacceptable” and did “not reflect the values and ethics of Emirate society”. You know what they say about Rome, “When in Rome, act like the Romans”. The Hushpuppi degrees
Gospel musician Sonnie Badu has been called out on social media for being an ‘academic scam’ after he posted on social media that he is now a Professor and Dean of Musicology at the Trinity International of Ambassadors University. This university, a tweep (Twitter user) claims, is nonexistent in the USA, where Sonnie claims he got it, save for some blog posts. “Curiously, Sonnie attained his Bachelor’s, Master’s, and Ph.D. in 4 months all from that school”, the tweep wrote, clearly annoyed Sonnie attributed it to grace and favour. “He’s an academic scam and not a victim of a scam.” Sonnie, yet to respond to the allegations wrote, “LIONS DON’T RESPOND TO FROGS.” Okay???

Of Egos and Forgiveness
Prince Harry wants an apology from the Royal Family over the treatment of his wife Meghan Markle, according to a report. Recall that the Duke of Sussex was outraged when a member of ‘The Firm’ allegedly asked how dark Archie’s skin would be before he was born, all of which was revealed in a tell-all interview with Oprah Winfrey. In turn, Buckingham Palace said it will look into all expressed concerns. In another report, a source claims that “The problem with Harry is that he’s hooked on being right and regardless of saying he wants to move on from this. He won’t back down until he gets some form of apology from his family.” Wearing her tiara
Nigerians are pretty good at everything and 5-year-old Kleopatra Vargas is proving this right in America. She made headlines after being crowned the new ‘Miss Toddler USA America Nation 2021’.
Kleopatra Vargas is a Mexican-Nigerian who speaks Igbo, Spanish and English language fluently. It turns out that she is not new to winning pageants. Princess Kleopatra was 10 months old when she won Baby Illinois 2016, beating 20 other children. Wondering where the Nigerian blood comes in? From her stylish mother. And in case you were wondering, her mum promises that this is just the beginning of several wins.