 Oluremi Tinubu  Adeyemi is the senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District while Oluremi Tinubu represents Lagos Central Senatorial District. Both lawmakers are members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The plenary session on insecurity which lasted for over an hour had lawmakers complaining about the insecurity in Nigeria as well as possible solutions. Smart Adeyemi vs Remi Tinubu
Adeyemi was one of the contributors to the debate – and spoke emotionally for over five minutes, describing the current state of insecurity in Nigeria as the worst so far. But Tinubu seemed disgusted by Adeyemi’s comments. “I’m a party man and I’m supporting APC but it has gotten to a point that as supporters we cannot keep quiet,” Adeyemi said during Tuesday’s plenary at the Senate where insecurity was being debated. “This is the worst instability we are facing. In fact, this is worse than the civil war.” While Adeyemi continued venting his anger at the “killing, maiming, insecurity in the country”, Tinubu who sat beside the senator interjected. “Are you in PDP? Are you a wolf in sheep’s clothing?,” Mrs Tinubu said rebuking the lawmaker. Adeyemi, however, ignored his colleague and fellow party member and stated that there are lots of misinterpretation of what is happening in the country. “Some people believe that some people in government are supporting this move,” Adeyemi said. “We cannot pretend that we are capable of handling the situation in our hands. America, as powerful as they are, when the pandemic came, it came to a point China came to their rescue. “We shouldn’t pretend that we need foreign support now. Billions of naira has been voted for security services and nothing is coming out of it.” Over 15 senators contributed to the debate on the activities of Boko Haram terrorists in three local governments of Niger State and other parts of Nigeria. The Remi Tinubu backlash
Nigerians, however, are not pleased with Tinubu’s alleged statement of politicising the insecurity issue. Many believe that her comment represents the stance of top government officials that the country’s security challenges were being overblown by the opposition. Remi Tinubu wants everyone to be blind to APC's insecurity so her husband Bola Tinubu can have a chance for 2023. You want your husband to become president in the blood of the citizens he wants to govern. You are a wicked woman. — Everest (@novieverest) April 27, 2021  Are you a Wolf in Sheep clothing??” Remi Tinubu wants to be First Lady at the expense of the  of innocent Nigerians. May that dream never come true. — theonly1acre (@theonly1acre) April 27, 2021  I won’t pay attention to the divisive Remi Tinubu. I will focus on this wise man, Smart Adeyemi. I may not be his fan, but you can tell he wasn’t speaking like an APC party man. Forget politics, there is fire on the mountain. NIGERIA IS BATTLING STAGE 3 CANCER. pic.twitter.com/qvQBSlv8Tu — NEFERTITI (@firstladyship) April 27, 2021  Hear Remi Tinubu's hot mic moment saying "Are you in PDP, are you a wolf in sheep clothing" So according to her, anyone that speaks about the mess in Nigeria is a PDP member They are so detached from reality that the instability going on in this country is just politics to them pic.twitter.com/YUUf85xOX4 — Morris Monye (@Morris_Monye) April 28, 2021  Tinubu's Presidency is going to be worse than that of Buhari. Tinubu once said they should enlist 50 million Nigerian youths into army in order to solve unemployment issue, and his wife, Remi Tinubu tried to shut down a fellow Senator for trying to raise issues around Insecurity. — Premier (@SodiqTade) April 27, 2021  Smart Adeyemi: Nigeria has neva experienced this level of insecurity Remi Tinubu: Are you not an APC member? Lamentations and wailing are meant for PDP and the poor masses Ogun punish any youth dt campaigns tinubu on this app! Ramsey Noah|Odanz|unknowngunmen|sundayigboho| pic.twitter.com/OT2VqJV32J — Truth Vendor (@truthvenddor) April 27, 2021  Senator Remi Tinubu doesn't represent Lagos Central constituency. She doesn't represent Lagosians. She doesn't represent Yoruba people. She doesn't represent Nigerians in general. Senator Remi Tinubu represents and only represents Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Adekunle Tinubu. — Ayo Sogunro (@ayosogunro) April 28, 2021  Remi Tinubu will never be a first lady in Nigeria. — Ayemojubar (@ayemojubar) April 27, 2021  Repeat after me Remi Tinubu is a wicked womanBola Ahmed Tinubu is a wicked man too. — CHINEDU OKORE (@iamCHINEDUOKORE) April 27, 2021  Smart Adeyemi was pouring out his soul, genuinely or not I'm not concerned, about the rate of insecurity in this country what a sitting senator, Remi Tinubu, cared about was political parties. The BMC trait to politicize everything has its roots in Bourdillon — GODZILLA  (@Samcleave_GZLA) April 27, 2021  You think Aisha Buhari is wicked until you try Remi Tinubu as First Lady. — Otaigbe Imadegbelo (@Imudia_se2) April 27, 2021  U.S. Consulate has issued a security warning claiming Lagos is now a State with high crime rate but a third term Lagos Senator, Remi Tinubu is busy observing table manner all in the name of 2023 presidency. pic.twitter.com/VgUy8ghNwT — Premier (@SodiqTade) April 27, 2021  Remi Tinubu dey frapapa on top Sam Adeyemi head. Old chick don forget say dem no gree give her hand shake that day, her nightmares still dey tell her say she go be First Lady DJ play "ashawo" by Flavour Nabania — FS Yusuf (@FS_Yusuf_) April 27, 2021  At this point there shouldn’t be any sugarcoating Senator Smart has said it exactly the way it is.Senator Remi Tinubu still thinks the security situation of Nigeria is about APC & PDP#UnknownGunmen pic.twitter.com/hTdWPN761P — OLUOMO OF ABUJA (@Hayordelevic) April 27, 2021  Occurred to me that Smart Adeyemi is an ally of Yahaya Bello.Remi Tinubu had to snap at him publicly because he perceived him to be an opposition to her husband ambition. More ridiculous that both Yahaya Bello and Tinubu won't get the ticket. Lool — Premier (@SodiqTade) April 27, 2021   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .