Delta Athletes receiving their medals after winning the golf event of the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival, which ends… today. • Osinbajo to declare games closed
• Team Delta set to become champions again After two weeks of competition in some of the best sports facilities in the West Africa sub-region, the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival will come to an end today. Already, the venues, especially the Sam Ogbemudia Stadium, have adorned festive moods in readiness for the grand finale, which will be done by Vice President, Yemi Osibanjo. Officials told The Guardian that security have been tightened in and around the city in readiness for the visit to the state by some dignitaries, just as the stage for a musical fest, which is part of the closing ceremony has been set. All athletes are expected to come to the closing ceremony wearing their accreditation tags and there would be no restriction on the number of athletes and officials to be admitted into the stadium, officials said. According to the Consultant, Ceremonial, Dr. Henry Nzekwu, the closing ceremony will last for just three hours from 6.00 p.m. to 9.00 p.m. at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium. He disclosed that finals of the relay races, mixed relays, 4 x 100m and 4x400m for men and women, are part of the closing ceremony. Already, three of the country’s top rated musicians, including Franchise, Joeboy and Teni ‘The Entertainer,’ have arrived in Benin for the ceremony. He added that Governor Godwin Obaseki, Youth and Sports Development Minister, Sunday Dare, and Edo State’s Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, who also doubles as the chairman of the Local Organising Committee (LOC), would speak during the ceremony. Meanwhile, defending champions, Team Delta, are on the verge of retaining their crown and being the first to win the new festival trophy. Delta won the last trophy for keeps after emerging champions at Abuja 2018 Festival. The state has won it seven times in the past. As at yesterday, Delta had 124 gold medals, 91 silver and 83 bronze medals for a total of 298 medals. Delta is followed by hosts, Edo, which has 103 gold medals, 97 silver and 85 bronze medals for a total of 285. Third-placed Bayelsa has 48 gold medals, 42 silver and 48 bronze medals.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .