 Bishop Emmanuel Olisa Chukwuma  This happened as, Anglican Bishop of Enugu Diocese, Dr. Emmanuel Chukwuma, has condemned rising insecurity across the country, warning that if nothing was done urgently, the situation could degenerate. According to Chukwuma, the country is sitting on a keg of gunpowder. At a press conference to mark his 31 years as a bishop, he regretted that the Federal Government failed to live up to its duties of protecting life and property, stressing that the people were losing confidence in the government. MEANWHILE, organisers of the APC rally, aimed at boosting the party’s support base and acceptability in the zone ahead of the 2023 general elections, cited the growing insecurity in the zone as responsible for the shift. Uba Onah, on behalf of the Chairperson, Publicity/Media Subcommittee of the rally, confirmed the shift in a short message yesterday to reporters in Enugu. He said: “The South East APC zonal rally, which is billed to hold on Friday this week, has been postponed due to the current security situation in the zone, in particular, and the nation in general.” HUMAN Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has urged the army to stop the indiscriminate use of firearms in parts of Imo State, which resulted in the death of civilians. This was made known yesterday in a statement signed by the National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko; and the National Media Affairs Director, Miss Zainab Yusuf. The human rights group told the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, that arbitrary use of firearms by his officers and men constituted crimes against humanity and gross violation of the citizens’ right to freedom. It particularly condemned the conversion of the Douglas House gate in Owerri to a killing field by soldiers who killed innocent bystanders and a bus driver in just two days. HURIWA threatened to sue the COAS at the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague, the Netherlands, should he fail to get his officers to operate in accordance with the rules of engagement in all internal military operations and in compliance with global best practices.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .