 Pat Utomi. Photo: THEINTERVIEW  How do you explain to people for example, that the evidence suggests production, the output that sustains and enhances our quality of life has been in decline since the Land Use Act or decree of 1976?  The intellectual easy path would be to explain the role of institutions and economic performance but you know how many years of study it took you to make those abstractions and then linkages between concepts and phenomena and you feel frustration well up.  The book Why Nations Fail, by James Robinson and Daron Acemoglu attained significant regard for showing why countries like Nigeria are poor, based on the same insights on institutions and economic performance. My own book which followed Managing Uncertainty, but was positioned as a sort of prequel at a broader frame level than managing uncertainty, Why Nations are Poor, published in 2006, a decade before why Nations fail, also followed those same insights. Those same ideas also led US President Barack Obama to remark in Accra, in his first speech on African soil as US president, that what Africa needs in strong institutions and not strong men.  Let us take the matter of the authority regarding land and how institutional arrangement regarding land has made us poorer, inclined to upheavals and to low trust in our ways of social organization. This problem has assumed great urgency given the economic, political and deep social malaise manifesting in widespread anomie, poverty and misery. My more immediate source of concern is the tripple shock economic crisis which, for me, began last year with the assessment of Nigeria by Forbes magazine which labelled Nigeria a money Losing machine, a signal to investors that Nigeria should be a no-go area for investments. To say that investment, capital, Is the lifeblood of capitalism is an oxymoron is not to be gifted with genius, the review was, therefore, literally speaking a death sentence on the Nigerian economy.
To be continued tomorrow
Utomi, political economist and Professor of entrepreneurship is the founder of Centre for Values in Leadership.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .