Ortom. Photo: Twitter/ GovSamuelOrtom • As FG’s panel in FUPRE tasks varsities on best practices
Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has attributed insecurity in the country to Federal Government’s inability to provide quality education to the youths, insisting that ignorance was responsible for the banditry, Boko Haram insurgency and other crimes in the country. Ortom, who made the assertion during a visit to Effurun, Delta State, yesterday, commended Delta people for supporting Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, who he described as “a hardworking, diligent, committed and determined leader, who is willing to add value to Delta State and the entire country.” His words: “If they were educated they would have found themselves something meaningful to do rather than occupying themselves with committing evil across the country. “I say so because I believe in education and if we must develop a people, we must give them quality education and so I commend Governor Okowa for the quality school and for creating three new universities in Delta State. “Governor Okowa has demonstrated immense capacity and commitment to achieve results in all tasks assigned to him and he remains our pride in the PDP and its Governors’ Forum. “Without education, there cannot be any meaningful development and a single facility hosting about 3,000 students is a good deal and worthy of commendation.
With the new universities, it will be easier to absolve them after their secondary education.” Responding, Okowa said the state government was doing much, but realised that a lot more still needed to be done, even as the state continued to build new schools and also completing the projects it inherited from the previous administration. “We believe in technical education and we believe that our people should be imparted with necessary skills to make them self-reliant and to survive the challenging times,” he said. MEANWHILE, a Federal Government visitation panel to the Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE), Delta State, yesterday, charged Nigerian universities to always comply with global best practices in corporate governance, operations, benchmark, quality assurance and judicious application of resources. Leader of the delegation to FUPRE, Prof. Ikenna Onyido, said it was important for the Federal Government to check the books of its universities regularly to ascertain compliance with regulations and assess their development in line with available regulations overtime. Onyido, a former Vice Chancellor of the Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, pointed out that although the assignment was not an inquisition, it was imperative to streamline things in the universities to accomplish their goals, as stipulated in the laws of the land. He said their assignment would further strengthen the university to carry out its mandate and attract global acceptance as required by the founding fathers and regulatory agencies.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .