 Zulum. Photo: TWITTER/GOVBORNO  Zulum said this on Saturday in Ibadan during a courtesy visit to his Oyo State counterpart, Gov. Sheyi Makinde. The governor appealed to those fomenting trouble in parts of the country to desist forthwith and allow peace to reign, adding that nobody could predict what would happen in times of crises. He called on the political class to take deliberate steps to preserve the land, protect the environment and ensure the peace and stability of the country. Zulum cautioned various levels of government and politicians to be mindful of how they handled security issues. The governor said that he was in Ibadan to receive an award at the University of Ibadan Alumni Association Worldwide. Zulum said that he had known Ibadan as a peaceful city right from his postgraduate days at the University of Ibadan. “We used to walk freely across the length and breadth of the city of Ibadan, Saki and Oyo and we should not allow sentiments to destroy this very important culture of the great people of Ibadan. “We will continue to stay together, live in peace and harmony for the betterment of Nigeria,’’ he stressed. Gov. Zulum also commiserated with Makinde over the fire at the spare parts market in Ibadan and the unfortunate Shasha mayhem also in Ibadan between indigenes and non-indigenes. Responding, Gov. Makinde said that Nigeria could surmount its current challenges if politicians, irrespective of party differences and ideology forged a common front. He noted that some other countries had gone through challenges in the past and emerged stronger, adding that he was optimistic that Nigeria’s case would not be different. The governor commended Zulum for his steadfastness in holding Borno together in spite of the many challenges he had passed through. “We want to encourage you and to let you know that we are praying for you. By God’s grace, you will succeed. As leaders, we only need to pull together to defeat the problems in the country. “We also want to acknowledge the work that you are doing in your state, especially on the issue of insecurity,’’ he said. Makinde appreciated the visit and congratulated Zulum for the award conferred on him by the association. “This courtesy visit is timely and demonstrates to the whole world that we are all together in the task of nation building,’’ Makinde said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that prominent among those in the entourage of Gov. Zulum were Gov. Abdulrahman AbdulRasaq of Kwara, Sen. Kashim Shetima, Sen. Ali Ndume and Sen. Abubakar Kyari.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .