 Zainab Bagudu  Shinkafi-Bagudu stated this at the 5th Kebbi Women’s Ramadan Lecture organised by the Office of the First Lady, Kebbi State Government in Birnin Kebbi on Saturday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the theme of the lecture is,”The fundamental role of women in Islam and roles they play in keeping the society safe”. Shinkafi-Bagudu said that the theme arose from disturbing problems in the society as the Muslims throughout the world were left grappling with the repercussions of coronavirus. “Islamic culture, spiritual and theological dimensions offer Muslims a myriad of ways to cope. “The practice of isolation is not new in Islam (ie, Halwa or Itiqaf) and can be spent on getting closer to Allah, takwa, strengthening family bonds and many other charitable deeds. “As Muslim women, we contribute a lot to not just our homes but to the society at large and a huge part of the successes of Ramadan period depends on us. “The preparation of the Suhoor and Iftar meals, going to our various places of work and making sure the family stays together to fully immerse themselves in the blessed month and gain the blessings of the months are important aspects of the month. “That said, we can do more to ease the month for many who may not be as blessed as some,” she said. She also urged women to double their efforts of Sadaqah and community engagements to keep their youths safe, especially after the Tarawweh prayers. “We must also appreciate the tireless efforts of our husbands, fathers, sons and brothers, especially during this month where we seek Allah’s blessings and reward,” she said. She thanked Gov. Atiku Bagudu and his officials for always carrying through with programmes that would benefit women and children. In his remarks, Bagudu thanked his wife for her initiation in coming up and sustaining the organisation of the annual event. “The theme and sub- theme are apt, and reflects the things that should remind us of the role played by women in Islam and Islamic ways of tackling modern health challenges as COVID-19 pandemic as we should be mindful of the pandemic as we are not out of it. “They also remind us that women have special role to play in that direction,” he said. Bagudu also revealed that the government had received 70 million dollars for adolescent girl- child programme by World Bank as part of the efforts to promote girl child education in the state. NAN reports that speakers at the event include Sheikh Abubakar Giro, Dr Isma’il Mufti-Menk, Sister Na’ima Robert and Dr Jabir Maihula. They spoke on the sub- theme of innovative Islamic ways of management in COVID-19 era, family obligation of wives in times of economic hardship and curbing gender based violence.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .