 Kumuyi  After all, they argue, nothing that is valuable comes without a price. They are right and wrong. They are right because Jesus Christ has, with His life, paid the price to make you a Christian. And they are wrong because they still assume that despite Christ’s ultimate sacrifice, they still have a huge price to pay for their salvation. What they don’t realise is that the redemption believers have in Christ is full and free. It lacks nothing because He “gave himself for us” to redeem and purify us to Himself a special, distinguished people. It requires no other sacrifice from us. Instead, beneficiaries of this redemption expectedly become zealous of good works. They are not barren, inoperative, or incapacitated spiritually. Jesus Christ gave Himself for everyone in all generations. His sacrifice, substitution, atonement, suffering, propitiation, and redemption is for each of us and for all. As the perfect, sinless, spotless, blameless One, He fully gave Himself so that no matter how deep a sinner had gone in sin, His purity, holiness, and personality will atone for him or her. He gave Himself without any reservation for the vilest of sinners in every generation and bore the full wrath of Heaven. He has taken away the suffering and penalty that we should have suffered. Therefore, full redemption, salvation, and total freedom from sin and its consequences are available, including a victory over trials, temptations, and difficulties. Christ also solves the problem of the original sin; that is, the depravity and carnality we inherited by nature from the first man, Adam, and He has redeemed us from all iniquity. Adam’s sin is not so terrible or great that the sacrifice of Jesus Christ cannot purge it. When Christ purifies believers who approach Him for sanctification, He restores the original purity God put in man at creation. He, the Master Maker of man, is the only one that can cleanse the heart and get it back to its original state. Christ purges and cleanses His followers to be useful instruments. As products of divine grace and new covenant people, we must replicate Christ and go about with burning zeal to do good works. Christ gave Himself “for our sins” as “a ransom for all.” He bore our guilt and the punishment we should have suffered, so that “he might deliver us from this present evil world”. Therefore, believers should not be under the pressure, problem, and yoke of this present evil world or keep wandering from pillar to post because they think their problems are greater than Christ Who lives in them. We must not accept the suggestion that God’s will is for us to experience the problems we face because the deliverance Christ gives us is full and “according to the will of God and our Father.” When we get to the point where we are “crucified with Christ” and identify with Him, He transfers His power, divine energy, and strength to us. Christ gave Himself to “sanctify and cleanse [us] with the washing of water by the word”. Every time we read the Word of God, it should make our hearts, minds, perspectives, understanding, and relationship with the Lord glorious. Although the Jews made sacrifices every year on the Day of Atonement, they still felt the presence, pollution, and power of sin. But Christ died to “redeem us from all iniquity,” so that we “might serve him without fear, In holiness and righteousness before him, all the days of our life”. He frees us from fear of the enemies that cause night palpitation. He has also redeemed us “from the curse of the law”. When Christ lives inside us and fulfills the purpose for which He called us, even though we live in a corrupt society, we bear fruit “unto holiness” and become as a white lily in a muddy environment. The grace of God cleanses and sets us free “from the law of sin and death”. Thus, we are made to live above sin, sickness, and all the activities of evil spirits. Because He gave Himself for us, we should also give ourselves back to Him. “And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord, and unto us by the will of God”. We belong to the Lord and should be fully given to Him. Further Reading (King James Version): Titus 2:13,14. Titus 2:14; 1 Timothy 2:6; Galatians 1:4; 2:20; Ephesians 5:25-27; Titus 2:14; Psalm 130:8; Luke 1:68-71,73-75; Galatians 3:13; Romans 6:22; 8:2; 1 John 3:5-9; 2 Corinthians 8:5. Titus 2:14; Malachi 3:3,4; Acts 15:9; 1 John 1:7; Hebrews 9:13,14; Titus 2:14; Psalm 4:3; Romans 14:7,8; 2 Corinthians 5:14,15; Exodus 19:5,6; Deuteronomy 7:6. Titus 2:14; Numbers 25:11-13; 2 Kings 10:16,28,30; Acts 11:24-26; 18:26-28; Romans 16:3-5. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .