The AU Plan of Action on Cultural and Creative Industries (CCIs) (https://bit.ly/2PlmKyo) was adopted during the 2nd Session of the African Union Conference of Ministers of Culture (CAMC2) held in Algiers, Algeria in 2008. The AU Plan of Action on Cultural and Creative Industries is a revised edition of the Dakar Plan of Action of 1992 prepared in the spirit of the World Decade for Cultural Development (1988-1997). The Republic of Zimbabwe and cultural and creative workers proposed the review of the Plan of Action. The proposed review was then approved by the 3rd Specialized Technical Committee on Youth, Culture and Sport held in Algiers, Algeria in October 2018.  The proposed review of the AU Plan of Action on Cultural and Creative Industries aimed at ensuring that current trends on the African creative economy and internationally were included in the African Union Plan of Action on Cultural and Creative Industries and it also strongly focused on potential areas for the development of the creative economy sector on the continent.  As such, the Revised African Union Plan of Action on Cultural and Creative Industries has identified eight (8) key areas which can contribute to the development of Cultural and Creative Industries in Africa. These areas are: The review of the Plan of Action was concluded in April 2020 and the Validation Workshop was organized to gather inputs from AU Member States experts and cultural and creative industries workers prior to its presentation for adoption to the AU Policy Organs.  During the opening, Ms. Cisse Mariama Mohamed, Director for Health, Humanitarian Affairs and Social Development (HHS) welcomed participants of the Validation Workshop of the Revised African Union Plan of Action on Cultural and Creative Industries. Director reiterated that the Revised African Union Plan of Action on Cultural and Creative Industries envisions an innovative, integrated, peaceful and prosperous Africa, where cultural and creative industries are the cornerstone of inclusive and sustainable development driven by its people and rich heritage.  She used the opportunity to also inform the participants that the Charter for African Cultural Renaissance which was adopted in 2006 has entered into force, and called for Member States to implement this continental policy tool. Ms. Cisse Mariama Mohamed further requested for support in advocating for the ratification and implementation of the Statute of the African Audio Visual and Cinema Commission (AACC) which the Government of Kenya has graciously offered to host.  “We need urgently to operationalize the AACC, a Specialized Agency of the African Union, so that it starts implementing its programmes and promote the production and marketing of our creative products on continent and in the world at large”, Director emphasized.  Mr. Daves Guzha, Chairperson of the Bureau of the 5th Pan-African Cultural Congress (PACC5) in his statement of support acknowledged the support and the trust which the AU Commission has provided to the Technical Working Group since 2018 when the review process started.  Dr. Thokozile Chitepo, Permanent Secretary, Ministry Responsible for Arts, Culture and Heritage, Zimbabwe reiterated Zimbabwe’s commitment in the process of revising the AU Plan of Action on Cultural and Creative Industries. In her statement of support, she said the Republic of Zimbabwe will continue to provide its support to enable African cultures and creative industries to thrive.  The workshop, which was a working session, provided inputs and recommendations on the Revised Plan of Action on Cultural and Creative Industries which will allow to move it to the next stage. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Union (AU). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .