 Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladapo Amao (left); Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo; Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Attahiru Ibrahim and Minister of Defence Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd) during the presentation of the final report of the Committee on the Reform of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of Nigeria in Abuja…yesterday.   								       PHOTO: NAN  A commitee set up by the Federal Government to holistically reform the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) has come out with 70 recommendations, which implementation, it hoped, will substantially tame the growing insecurity in the country. Among the recommendations by the 21-member panel led by Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Umaru (rtd.) was the urgent need for a holistic audit of personnel and equipment of the military across all formations in the country. The panel also made a strong case for the activation of the provisions of the Armed Forces Act that deal with reserves and veterans, in the face of threats to national security. The development comes amid rising cases of banditry, insurgency, kidnapping, separatist agitations and the like. The Minister of Defence, Maj-Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd.), who received the report, pledged diligent implementation, in demonstration of the Federal Government’s commitment towards ending violence across the country. “An urgent action is required for the audit of military personnel and equipment in all formations of the AFN, application of technology in the conduct of war and the handling of cybersecurity issues as they affect national security,” the panel said. HOWEVER, the army has condemned the indiscriminate sharing on social media of graphic pictures of personnel who died in the cause of defending the country. The army, therefore, announced that it would take legal action against such “despicable and unacceptable” acts, to protect troops who die in action. Director Army Public Relations, Brig-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, who disclosed this yesterday in Abuja, said such individuals, who died while defending their honour and fatherland, should not be “ridiculed on social media or any platform.” He noted: “This act is not only unpatriotic but very insensitive and utterly reprehensible. “Officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army deployed to various theatres of internal security operations are on legitimate duties and are in the harm’s way to defend and protect the country from those who are intent on destroying it.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .