Banners critical of the European Super League project  hang from the railings of Anfield stadium, home of English Premier League football club Liverpool, in Liverpool, north west England on April 21, 2021. – The proposed European Super League (ESL) appeared dead in the water today after all six English clubs withdrew following a furious backlash from fans and threats from football authorities. (Photo by Paul ELLIS / AFP) Statements from all six English clubs after their withdrawal from football’s proposed European Super League: Arsenal 
“It was never our intention to cause such distress, however when the invitation to join the Super League came, while knowing there were no guarantees, we did not want to be left behind to ensure we protected Arsenal and its future. “As a result of listening to you and the wider football community over recent days we are withdrawing from the proposed Super League. We made a mistake, and we apologise for it.” Chelsea 
“Having joined the group late last week, we have now had time to consider the matter fully and have decided that our continued participation in these plans would not be in the best interests of the club, our supporters or the wider football community.” Liverpool 
“In recent days, the club has received representations from various key stakeholders, both internally and externally, and we would like to thank them for their valuable contributions.” Manchester City 
“Manchester City Football Club can confirm that it has formally enacted the procedures to withdraw from the group developing plans for a European Super League.” Manchester United 
“We have listened carefully to the reaction from our fans, the UK government and other key stakeholders.” Tottenham Hotspur 
“We regret the anxiety and upset caused by the ESL proposal. We felt it was important that our club participated in the development of a possible new structure that sought to better ensure financial fair play and financial sustainability whilst delivering significantly increased support for the wider football pyramid.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .