 Bayern Munich’s German midfielder Joshua Kimmich (L) and Union Berlin’s German forward Marius Buelter vie for the ball during the German first division Bundesliga football match between FC Bayern Munich and 1 FC Union Berlin, in Munich, southern Germany, on April 10, 2021. (Photo by CHRISTOF STACHE / various sources / AFP)  Bayern Munich midfielder Joshua Kimmich is convinced the holders can beat Paris Saint-Germain at the Parc des Princes today in their Champions League quarterfinal second leg to reach the last four, reports AFP. “I believe that we will progress because we’re the better team,” Kimmich told the club’s website. Bayern needs to overturn a 3-2 defeat from last week’s first leg in Munich. “We were the better team in the first leg, but unfortunately the result didn’t correspond to the performance,” added Kimmich. “Nevertheless, I’m confident that we can still turn it around in the second leg.” Despite peppering the PSG goal with 31 shots, 12 on target, Bayern lost the first leg at home after Kylian Mbappe converted, twice, and Marquinhos scored as PSG had just four shots on target. “In the first leg, they threatened three times and scored three times,” said Kimmich. “Apart from that, I don’t remember Paris having that many chances. “Overall, our attack had more possession and more chances. Now we have to take these chances.” Bayern is without injured top-scorer Robert Lewandowski and winger Serge Gnabry after he tested positive for COVID-19. “A lot will come down to mentality, but also efficiency,” Kimmich added. “We already showed a good mentality in the first game but we weren’t efficient enough. This time we need both. “It’s down to every individual in our team, not just me. Every player must become a leader in this game. “Everyone must show their character on the day and have total belief in themselves. “And then we have to strike when the chance comes. Meanwhile, Chelsea manager, Thomas Tuchel, said yesterday that he came to London to immediately win titles as the Blues aim to take big steps toward Champions League and FA Cup success this week. Tuchel’s men take a 2-0 lead into the second leg of their Champions League quarterfinal, second leg, against Porto today before facing Manchester City in the FA Cup semi-finals on Saturday. The German won silverware during his time at Borussia Dortmund and Paris Saint-Germain and has made a big impact since replacing the sacked Frank Lampard in January. In 17 games under Tuchel, Chelsea has lost just once to progress in both cup competitions and is within a point of the top four in the Premier League. “If you can win consecutive games you can, of course, win titles because Chelsea is a club that has the culture, the history, the quality, and the structure to do so,” said Tuchel, ahead of the return leg against the Portuguese giants, which is being held in Seville due to coronavirus restrictions on travel between Portugal and England. “I am here to win games and as a result to win titles. This is what I demand of myself, so why now should we say we want to win in two or three or five years. Now is the time. “But tomorrow is the game to play and there is no tougher game than the next game. There is no other obstacle to overcome than Porto tomorrow. “We should not get lost in dreams and hopes and speeches. We are here in the reality and the reality is we have a hard battle. Hopefully, after tomorrow we can talk about the semi-final.” Tuchel will make a late decision on the fitness of N’Golo Kante after the Frenchman made his comeback from injury as a substitute in the first leg against Porto and a 4-1 rout of Crystal Palace at the weekend. “Normally it is hard to imagine a game like this without N’Golo, but at the same time we need to be absolutely careful about him and that we don’t take risks with his health and with his injury situation,” added Tuchel. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .