 Akpabio  He stated this when Alumni of the University of Calabar (UNICAL), led by the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Florence Banku Obi, visited him in Abuja at the weekend, noting that he desired to be judged by the legacy he would leave behind as against what critics would say. While receiving the Distinguished UNICAL Ambassador Award the Vice Chancellor conferred on him, Akpabio said the award was an indication of his commitment towards infrastructure development and commitment to the advancement of humanity. “This award is not ordinary but one that recognises my antecedents in spite of all manner of political misinterpretations and blackmails in the country,” he stated. While commending the alumni, he dedicated the award to all politicians, who passed through what he described as “smear campaigns of politics” like him, but still remained focused. Earlier, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, Dr. Babayo Ardo, noted that Akpabio, who graduated from UNICAL in 1986 had been a great achiever and that the ministry was privileged to have him at the helm of its affairs. Babayo said the ministry was undergoing a silent revolution and that the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) was being repositioned to achieve greater heights, adding that it recently commissioned NDDC Headquarters in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, while over 30 completed projects were awaiting commissioning. On her part, Obi stated that the conferment of the award on Akpabio was based on his achievements and contributions to the university and humanity. Director, Alumni Affairs, Prof. Ernest Bassey Asikong, stated that President Muhammadu Buhari’s appointment of Akpabio as Minister of Niger Delta Affairs was in recognition of his good leadership potentials, administrative competencies, political ingenuity and doggedness among other qualities. Asikong, who was represented by Paul Eshiemomoh, stressed that the Niger Delta region would experience sustainabile development considering Akpabio’s wealth of experience as a former Governor of Akwa-Ibom State, Senator and several other leadership positions he (Akpabio) had occupied. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .