Forty-four persons, including two medical doctors, have died of Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19)-related complications in Gombe State. Out of the 34,472 samples taken so far, 2,034 tested positive for the virus; while 1,990 treated cases were discharged within the last year it was first discovered in the state. This is as 485 persons were diagnosed with tuberculosis (TB) in Yobe State. Briefing newsmen yesterday, the Deputy Governor of Gombe, Manassa Jattau, who doubles as chairman of the state’s COVID-19 Committee, stated that the state was able to reduce the mortality rate to 2.1 per cent against the seven per cent recorded in most states. “We have managed our cases better than other states with over seven per cent cases. So far, 36,932 people have been vaccinated against the deadly virus in the first phase,” he added. Cautioning against losing guard, Jattau stated that “COVID-19 is still ravaging the world” and pleaded for the observation of safety protocols. He added that emergency operations centres were created across the state within the year under review.
MEANWHILE, Yobe State Programme Officer for Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control (TB-LC), Dr. Garba Audu, has said that 485 patients were diagnosed with tuberculosis in the state. The confirmations of TB patients were conducted in the first quarter of 2021 in 17 local councils with a standard GeneXpert machine. While lamenting the spread of TB, he said the highest-burden local councils were Potiskum, Damaturu and Gashua, 185 kilometres north of the state capital, assuring that the patients had been placed on proper medication and treatment for a minimum of six months in 183 public and private health facilities. On challenges of TB, he said “COVID-19 is a major challenge to TB cases in the state,” noting that there were similarities of symptoms between COVID-19 and TB. They both present cough, fever, body weakness among other similar symptoms, after people had contracted the diseases, he noted. He, therefore, urged the media to assist by enlightening the people to end the spread of TB.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .