 Akin Olateru  Olateru, whose appointment was recently renewed for the second term by the Federal Government, said the dedicated workforce was instrumental to the Bureau achieving its core mandate of investigating aircraft accidents and serious incidents. He said it was an honour to work with the staffers in the last four years, and he looked forward to the next four years with great expectations. “I invite you now to look back on the last four years, at the events, the challenges, our successes and aspirations and work with me to continue the path of innovation and strategic development. We must continue to deliver on our mandate with the highest standards of professionalism as we always have, and to continue to grow thereon,” he said. The Commissioner, however, assured that his administration would continue to innovate and establish the AIB-N even further, to align with the best in class globally. “I plan to improve our infrastructure and equipment, strengthen our human capital, further simplify our processes, and eliminate bottlenecks in our procedures, making AIB a highly reputable institution,” he added. Olateru expressed gratitude to the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Honourable Minister of Aviation for the trust and confidence reposed in him to continue to lead the AIB. He added that he is humbled by the progress that has been achieved at AIB-N since he assumed office in 2017. “I am even more humbled by the recognition and acknowledgement of these achievements by our Minister, my colleagues, staff, and the media. In the last four years, with your help, hard work and commitment, we have taken the Agency from relative obscurity to its rightful place. “We improved our infrastructure, equipment, human capital, and staff welfare.  We also reviewed and improved our systems, processes and procedures. I am very proud of what we have achieved, and I hope that you can all take pride in your individual and collective contributions to realising this feat,” he added. Olateru’s tenure as Commissioner between January 2017 and January 2021, witnessed the release of 40 final reports on accidents and serious incidents and three Safety Bulletins. This represents a 67.8 per cent of the total final reports released by the Bureau since it was established in 2007. The Bureau also issued 130 Safety Recommendations within this period, representing 61.6 per cent of the total safety recommendations issued by the Bureau.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .