The Abia State Government said it has shut Union Primary School, Afaraukwu in Umuahia North LGA after explosives were discovered there. Abia commissioner of information John Kalu in a statement said the school was shut down to protect the pupils. Kalu said the “Abia State Government is currently working with relevant security agencies in the state to unravel the source and nature of the suspected explosive devices found at Union Primary School, Afaraukwu in Umuahia North LGA. The commissioner disclosed that an initial examination of the devices showed evidence of corrosion leading to suspicion of the materials being relics of the  Nigerian civil war. He said the government is “awaiting a definite official report from the EOD squad of the Nigeria Police who are currently investigating the incident. “Meanwhile, necessary measures have been taken to protect the pupils and staff of the school with security sweeps ongoing while the school is temporarily closed.” Kalu said Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has directed security agencies to embark on proactive checks in other vulnerable locations out of an abundance of caution. The commissioner urged citizens and residents to continue to maintain vigilance and report suspicious situations to security agents. The discovery comes three days after the state government had imposed a 10:00 pm to 6:00 am curfew on Umuahia and Aba to forestall potential unrest. The curfew was announced hours after gunmen attacked a federal correctional facility and police command headquarters in Imo state. Kalu said the curfew was based on a security report received by the state government and “the need to continue to protect innocent citizens and residents of the state.” “Security agencies in the state have been directed to ensure strict enforcement and compliance with the directive. Only those on essential services with proper identification are exempted from the curfew,” Kalu said. He urged traditional rulers and security agencies in the state to monitor the movement of persons within their respective domains and take necessary measures to protect the people and their properties.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .