Governor Makinde. Photo; SEYIAMAKINDE The governor made the comment when he kicked off the exploratory dialogue of the United Nations Food Systems Summit (UNFSS) in the South West Geo-Political Zone. The event came ahead of the summit convened by the UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, to hold in September 2021.
The Federal Government, through Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, in collaboration with Oyo State Ministry of Budget and Economic Planning, organised a dialogue series across the six geo-political zones in the country to tackle food security challenges. Makinde, in his address at the event held in Ibadan, yesterday, said it was time to change the face of agriculture and agribusiness in the South West and Nigeria The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to State Government, Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun, noted that the issue of food supply and surplus is key to reviving the crashing economy, hence the need for emergency food response that must be sustained and well funded. He called on all stakeholders to change the face of agriculture by ensuring realisation of five action plans of ensuring access to safe and nutritious food for all, shifting to sustainable consumption pattern, posting nature’s positive production, advancing equitable livelihoods and building resilience to vulnerabilities, shocks and stress. “These are challenging times. In the past one year, we have witnessed the COVID-19 pandemic and the effects on our societies and economies and the entire food systems. “The pandemic threatened the very existence of life for billions of people and threw millions of families into poverty and hunger around the world. “As we all know, the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the need for improved social protection and closing the gap of food security. “Food and nutritional security, sound education as well as achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are foundations of a decent life. It was, therefore, high time we built an emergency food response that must be sustained and well funded,” Makinde said. To accelerate achievement of the SDGs by 2030, the UN secretary general would  convene the summit on food systems to help develop the future direction of global food systems and inspire other necessary actions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .