 The Ooni of Ife Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja II  A Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), has urged all paramount traditional leaders, especially the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III and the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, to convene a meeting of Yoruba leaders. In a statement yesterday, Publicity Secretary of ARG, Mr. Kunle Famoriyo, said the challenges of insecurity, inflation and unemployment in the country had taken a deleterious toll on the overall well-being of Yoruba people. The group said it was imperative of Yoruba leaders of thought to seek alternative thought-leadership front to complement the efforts of the political leadership. ARG added that constitutional approach to resolving Nigeria’s multifarious socio-economic challenges as we have been doing over the years had proven to be a guarantee that the challenges would persist and get worse and solutions would become harder to find. MEANWHILE, Director-General, Tinubu Support Organisation (TSO), Mr. Aminu Suleiman, has appealed to Yoruba to rally around the former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu for his presidential ambition in 2023. Suleiman, who stated this yesterday, said from all indications, the North had indicated interest to support Tinubu’s presidential ambition to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. He commended the national leader of APC for having done his best for the country and especially for Yoruba nation. IN another development, series of ground-breaking activities to herald the 30th-year celebration of Imesis Togetherness will kick off on Saturday, May 1, 2021, at the Ooni’s Palace, Ile-Ife, Osun State. According to a programme of events released by its organisers, Imeside Diaspora Initiative (IDI), His Imperial Majesty, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, is billed to declare the event open while the welcome address would be given by His Royal Majesty, Oba Enoch Ademola Akinyemi (JP), Oyoyo II, Owa Oye of Imesi Ile. Highlights of the event include presentation of a paper titled: “Imesi: Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow” by the co-ordinator of IDI, Kola Bamigbade; presentation of three books authored by the co-ordinator – Yoruba Book of Records by Ambassador (Dr.) Yemi Farounbi; Yoruba Unity Book of Records  by Major Olajide Ijadare (rtd) (U.S. Army) and A Concise History of the Yoruba by Prof. Olu Aderounmu. It will as well feature the presentation of various awards to deserving personalities by Aare Afe Babalola, who also serves as chairman of the occasion; just as goodwill messages would be delivered by His Royal Majesties, Oba Michael Gbadebo Adedeji, Ariyowonye II, Owa Oye of Okemesi-Ekiti, Oba Festus Olatunji  Olatunde, Ola Ibiyemi II; Onimesi of Imesi Ekiti, Oba Rasheed Adeoye Adesanya, Ademokun II; the Ogu’ja Olu-Isa (Olisa), Ijebu Ode; Head, Olu-Imasayi-in-Council, Head, Owa-Okunowa-in-Council, other Obas, guests and special guests of honour.
The event, which will also feature a variety of cultural entertainments would see Prof. Banji Akintoye delivering the keynote address. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .