The United States Government, through the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) has delivered a shipment of COVID-19 supplies to the Zanzibar Ministry of Health.  USAID’s Global Health Supply Chain activity recently procured respiratory and sanitation supplies valued at $400,000. The supplies were delivered over the past month to the Port of Zanzibar and onward to public medical facilities through the central medical store. The shipment includes respiratory equipment such as pulse oximeters, pediatric and adult nasal cannulas, masks; and sanitation supplies such as backpack sprayers, and biohazard disposal bags. Speaking on the delivery of medical equipment, Dr. Abdullah S. Ali, Director General of the Ministry of Health Social Welfare, Elderly, Gender and Children, Zanzibar remarked “We believe in partnership relations that deliver quality health care to the general population. The consignment of medical supplies received will fill the existing gaps in the reduction of the burden associated with the COVID 19 threat in terms of mortality, morbidity and hospitalizations.” The United States government is committed to working side-by-side with all collaborators in Tanzania’s health sector to mitigate the effects of COVID-19. The U.S. is the single largest contributor to the international response to COVID-19, and over the last year, the United States has dedicated $16.4 million to the COVID-19 response in Tanzania. U.S. Ambassador to Tanzania Donald Wright said that the U.S. Government is pleased to partner with the Zanzibar Ministry of Health to provide these critical supplies. “Our contribution of $400,000 worth of respiratory support and sanitation supplies is a symbol of our commitment to this partnership, and we look forward to working side by side with you and other stakeholders in the fight against COVID-19 and in our broader efforts to improve global health security,” he said. “We also welcome President Samia Suluhu Hassan’s announcement that she intends to set up a taskforce to study COVID-19 and provide science-based advice on how to respond effectively. Additionally, the United States Government hopes a review of the evidence of vaccines is part of that process, as well as a commitment to enhanced reporting and data sharing.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .