Emanuella Features In Australian Action Film ‘Survive Or Die’ Nigerian 9-year-old Youtube comedian Emmanuella Samuel, popularly known as Emanuella has been featured in an Australian movie titled ‘Survive or Die.’ Shot in Australia in 2018, the top comedienne appeared in the film as a guest star alongside its major cast including Hawa Barnes, Felino Dolloso, and Craig Bourke. ‘Survive Or Die’ focuses on the story of Shade, a 16-year-old refugee whose escape from her war-torn African country lands her in a remote and uninhabited part of Australia. She must reach civilization whilst fighting for her life in the harsh terrain and from a hunter on a quest for revenge over the death of his son. Speaking on the inspiration behind the production, Okoduwa in an Instagram post said: Millions of people are displaced across the globe. Many are trapped in wastelands and dead lands; many more have drowned in the seas while fleeing conflict zones. Refugees are crossing borders making many governments nervous, unbalancing internal politics, and giving rise to nationalism, racism, and xenophobia. As the world becomes more dangerous doors are shut and walls come up. This movie is based on real-life stories and events. Many of the scenes in this film are drawn from real-life experiences and events. In the 90s as a very young boy, by accident or chance, I found myself on a boat in West Africa. We sailed through the Atlantic Ocean for days an experience I can only describe as hell on water. I eventually got lost in the very heart of Africa and continued my journey through central and Southern Africa picking up languages, experiencing different cultures but above all picking up survival skills. The cast of Emanuella in this film is definitely not a mistake as she has brought in lots of views. Okoduwa said: 1 million views in just a week!!!. The inclusion of Emmanuella Samuel in this movie may be the driving force behind these high views in just a few days ( based on the comments). Watch the film below: 