 gunmen Photo: getty image  It was learnt that suspected cultists terrorising the community had invaded the area in the evening, shot sporadically into the air, went into the late Nwinee’s compound and shot him several times on the neck to ensure he was dead before fleeing. However, the motive for the killings is still unknown as it was not clear if the attack was a reprisal, but sources in the community said the bloody attacks had sent panic to residents of the area. The source said: “Some cultists invaded Kabangha community in Khana LGA and shot two persons last night, Sunday night. “One of those shot is called Nwinee. He died on the spot as he was shot in the neck on his bed. “Another victim, Basi Duuduu, was evacuated to hospital in Bori by the DPO, who responded immediately and came to Kabangha same night. He said: “Seven days ago, on March 28, some cult boys also invaded the community and killed one Emeka Erasmus. His two hands were cut off before he was shot in the eye.” Confirming the incident, younger brother to one of the late victims, K.L Nwinee, said the killers invaded his elder brother’s home around 9.pm and killed him. He said: “They called me this morning that my elder brother, who is over 60 years, has been killed. When I rushed home this morning, I saw him in the pool of his blood. “His killers met him on his bed and killed him. His wife managed to escape from the killers. I got there and we buried him immediately.” In another development, about 22 tricycles popularly known as ‘Keke NAPEP’ were destroyed during a fire outbreak that ravaged a mechanic workshop on the Eagle Cement Road, Iwofe, in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area yesterday. Eyewitnesses said the inferno was caused by persons engaging in illegal sales of petroleum products.It was learnt that fire fighters were not available when it started at around 2.am on Monday. One of the victims said: “They are engaged in illegal bunkering here. It is their activities that triggered the fire, now all our tricycles are burnt. We don’t have anything again to manage. Another resident whose tricycle was burnt said: “I don’t know where I want to start from. It is the illegal petroleum business they are doing here that caused this fire.” Rivers Police Public Relation’s Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, failed to respond to calls and text messages on the matter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .