Rapper/ Actor DMX Dead At 50/ Instagram DMX, the talented hip-hop artist who produced the songs “Ruff Ryders’ Anthem” and “Party Up (Up in Here)” and who rapped with a trademark delivery that was often paired with growls, barks and “What!” as an ad-lib, has died, according to a statement from his family. He was 50. The Grammy-nominated performer died after suffering “catastrophic cardiac arrest,” according to the hospital in White Plains, New York, where he died. He was placed on life support and never recovered. The statement by the family reads: “Earl was a warrior who fought till the very end. He loved his family with all of his heart and we cherish the times we spent with him. Earl’s music inspired countless fans across the world and his iconic legacy will live on forever. We appreciate all of the love and support during this incredibly difficult time.” The family asked for privacy at they “grieve the loss of our brother, father, uncle and the man the world knew as DMX,” adding that information about his memorial service will be announced once details are finalized. DMX had battled substance abuse and endured multiple rehab stints, the most recent of which was in 2019 after serving a 12-month prison sentence for tax evasion. Born in Baltimore and raised in Yonkers, New York, DMX spent the early years of his childhood in and out of juvenile detention centers and group homes. While he maintained a close relationship with his grandmother and other family members, music became his escape. DMX launched his career in the 1990s. His debut album, “It’s Dark and Hell Is Hot,” dropped in 1998 and featured the hit “Ruff Ryders’ Anthem.” As a Def Jam signee, he was a crucial member of the Ruff Ryders dynasty, which birthed trailblazing artists such as Swizz Beatz, Eve and The Lox. In 1999, DMX released his best-selling album, “… And Then There Was X,” featuring the hit single “Party Up (Up in Here).” The triple-platinum album received two Grammy nominations, for best rap solo performance and best rap album. DMX’s third Grammy nomination came from his 2001 single, “Who We Be.”