Agboola Ajayi Begins construction of abandoned 18.625km Akunnu/Ikaram/Oke-Agbe road 
Ondo State Government has asked the police to prevail on the immediate past deputy governor of the state, Agboola Ajayi, to return government vehicles in his possession two months after his exit from office. This was contained in a letter to the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Bolaji Salami and signed by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Special Duties & Strategy, Dr. Doyin Odebowale, which was made available to journalists in Akure yesterday. Odebowale lamented that Ajayi was still holding on to four government vehicles despite leaving office almost two months ago, saying all entreaties to him to return the vehicles for the use of the incumbent deputy governor were rebuffed. “Our office has the firm directive of the governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, to recover all government properties still in the possession of former political office holders in the state, especially those who served in the immediate past administration. “Our record confirms that Mr. Agboola Ajayi, the immediate past deputy governor of Ondo State, is still holding on to four vehicles owned by the government. “All entreaties to him to return these vehicles for the use of the incumbent occupier of the office have been rebuffed. Please, Sir, find attached copies of the letters dated February 16, 2021 and March 1, 2021 respectively,” the letter read. The governor’s aide said that the state government opted to lodge the complaint, believing that the police would use all lawful means within their reach “to look into this brazen act of conversion, and this is being charitable. “Any person who keeps/detains the property of another with the intent to deprive the owner, permanently, of the use right conferred therefrom, has committed an offence known in law as stealing. “The vehicles in Mr. Ajayi’s possession, unlawfully, are Land Cruiser SUV, New Toyota Hilux, New Toyota Hilux and Toyota Hilux.” In another development, to reduce criminal activities, especially kidnapping and robbery along the Akunnu/Ikaram/Oke-Agbe Highway in Akoko North East Local Council of Ondo State, the state government has begun the construction of the road. The state’s Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Raimi Aminu, who led state government team for inspection and monitoring tour of the project, yesterday, said the road would be completed in the next 60 days. Aminu, who expressed satisfaction with the quality of work done on the road, emphasised that the road was among the best in South-West geo-political zone, saying: “We are quite impressed with what they are doing here. The contractor is still working within the given time-frame.” The road was flagged off about a year ago during the third year anniversary of Governor Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu-led administration.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .