Nigeria Should Be Structured For Peace, Justice— IDFP The Interfaith Dialogue Forum for Peace (IDFP) has called on Federal Government and religious leaders to work together to address the challenges of kidnapping, armed banditry, and other criminal activities ravaging the country. The group also decried the incessant crises in different parts of the nation and advised federal and state governments to provide job opportunities, as well as skills acquisition for youths. Speaking during a webinar conference with the theme: “Human Rights Violations and Armed Conflicts in Nigeria: The perspective of young people”, Co-Chairmen of the Forum, Alhaji Kunle Sanni Ishaq and Bishop Sunday, both said the surging youth population combined with unemployment and urbanisation can lead to increased violence in the country. They stressed that empowering youths is crucial to addressing the challenges of human rights violations and armed conflicts in Nigeria. The group urged the National Orientation Agency to come up with programmes to change youths’ mindset towards peaceful engagement while calling on the government to formulate laws where religious inclinations and beliefs should be separated from human rights. In a communiqué issued after the conference, IDFP appealed to the Federal Government to provide free education and scholarships to youths at all levels, considering that they are a nation’s greatest assets. Similarly at another programme, the forum urged Federal Government to increase the number of Police Officers and other security agencies in the country to one million to protect Nigerians, while stressing the need for government to prioritise restructuring to tackle the multifaceted challenges facing the country. The call was made during a webinar with the theme: “Kidnapping and Armed Banditry: Role of Government and Religious Leaders in addressing these challenges”. The event, attended by over 80 religious leaders mainly of Muslims and Christians, was anchored and moderated by the IDFP Co-Publicity Secretary, Dr. (Mrs.) Uzoaku J. Williams and the Project Officer, Hajiya Lantana Abdullahi. In a communiqué issued after the meeting, the forum resolved that the government should carry out a structural adjustment in the Nigerian Police System. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .