Harry and Meghan Markle – Mark Cuthbert-UK Press via Getty Images Prince Harry And Meghan Markle have announced their first Netflix series “Heart Of Invictus”, a docu-series that reveals “the human stories and resilient spirit behind the Invictus Games.” The Duke and Duchess of Sussex on Tuesday, April 6, announced they have teamed up with Oscar-winning filmmakers Orlando Von Einsiedel and Joanna Natesegara to create Archewell’s first-ever Netflix series. Together, the group will tell the stories of the athletes competing in the 2022 Invictus Games, an international adaptive multi-sport event in which wounded, injured or sick armed services personnel and their associated veterans take part in nine sports on behalf of their country. Prince Harry, in a statement, said, “Since the very first Invictus Games back in 2014, we knew that each competitor would contribute in their own exceptional way to a mosaic of resilience, determination, and resolve. This series will give communities around the world a window into the moving and uplifting stories of these competitors on their path to the Netherlands next year..” “As Archewell Productions’ first series with Netflix, in partnership with the Invictus Games Foundation,” he continued, “I couldn’t be more excited for the journey ahead or prouder of the Invictus community for continuously inspiring global healing, human potential and continued service.” SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA – OCTOBER 27: Prince Harry, Duke of SussexÊ congratulating the United States team in the Wheelchair Basketball after winning Gold in the finals during day eight of the Invictus Games Sydney 2018 at on October 27, 2018 in Sydney, Australia. (Photo by Chris Jackson/Getty Images for the Invictus Games Foundation) Heart of Invictus image 1 (photo credit — Invictus Games Foundation) Harry will appear in the show and will serve as executive producer on the series. Read More:
Prince Harry And Meghan Markle Sign Multiyear Deal With Netflix Ted Sarandos, co-CEO and chief content officer of Netflix, said Archewell Productions is already hard at work on creating content that matters, adding, “From the moment I met them, it’s been clear that the Invictus Games hold a very special place in their hearts, and I couldn’t be happier that their first series for Netflix will showcase that for the world in a way never seen before.” Dominic Reid, chief executive of the Invictus Games Foundation, said: “We’re very excited about the opportunity to shine the global spotlight of Netflix on the men and women that we work with, in order to ensure that even more people can be inspired by their determination and fortitude in working towards their recovery. “This partnership will also bring in significant funding to the charity. We are extremely grateful to our Founding Patron for his continued efforts to support the military community, and for making this partnership happen.” The first Invictus Games took place in September 2014 at the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in London, United Kingdom. The 2020 games were scheduled to be held in The Hague, Netherlands in May 2020, but were postponed to 2022 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.