All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains and supporters in Rivers State, yesterday, declared that the party was strategising to take over the governance in 2023. They lamented that APC had expressed serious setbacks in the state, but affirmed that they would do everything possible to win the next governorship, state and national assembly elections. Speaking at a sensitisation rally on the ongoing revalidation and registration exercise in Ward 11 and 13 of Obio/Akpor Council, they noted that zoning the governorship ticket to the coastal areas was a step in the right direction. They alleged that the areas and their people had been neglected and marginalised for too long, insisting that the move indicated that the party supporters back Minister of Transportation and leader of APC in the state, Chibuike Amaechi’s decision to zone the 2023 governorship ticket to the coastal areas. APC Caretaker Committee Chairman in Obior/Akpor Council, Godwin Wobo, said: “Zoning the governorship ticket for the 2023 elections is a good decision and we all support it. From Melford Okilo’s administration to the Governor Nyesom Wike-led government, the governorship has been rotated between upland and riverine. A fair and committed man to this kind of project must tell you the truth.” Organisers of the rally, Ibitoru Green and Ijeoma Ukpabi, restated that the APC was repackaging to take over Rivers Brick House in 2023, saying the time was ripe for the riverine areas to get the governorship position for equity and fairness. Green commended Amaechi for zoning the party’s governorship ticket for the 2023 elections to the riverine areas, saying: “We are out to sensitise the people to revalidate and register to enable them to participate in bringing change to our state. Amaechi believes that it’s time for the riverine people to takeover and we want an Ijaw governor in 2023.” On her part, Ukpabi said the Supreme Court judgment that declared Isaac Ogbobula Acting Chairman of APC, restored peace and unity in the party, adding: “We are sensitising the youths, women, old and intending members of APC on the need to revalidate and register in the exercise.” Leader of APC in Obio/Akpor Ward 11, Bright Otuonye and Ward 13 CTC Chairman, Fyneface Ebere, accused the PDP government in the state of neglecting the youths. “We are tired of this government, we want change. We need human capacity development and that is why we are calling on Rivers people to revalidate their membership and register with the APC to reposition the state in 2023,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .