Muslim worshippers perform the evening Tarawih prayer during the fasting month of Ramadan  around the Kaaba in the Grand Mosque complex in the holy city of Mecca, on April 13, 2021. – Saudi authorities said on April 5 only people immunised against COVID-19 will be allowed to perform the year-round Umrah pilgrimage from the start of Ramadan, the holy fasting month for Muslims. (Photo by – / AFP) Pilgrims immunised against Covid-19 circled Islam’s holiest site in Saudi Arabia’s Mecca city Tuesday as they performed the year-round umrah pilgrimage on the first day of the fasting month of Ramadan. Mask-clad worshippers entered Mecca’s Grand Mosque in batches to perform the ritual of circling the sacred Kaaba, a cubic structure towards which Muslims around the world pray, along socially distanced paths. Only immunised pilgrims are eligible for permits to perform the pilgrimage and to attend prayers in the Grand Mosque during Ramadan, the hajj and umrah ministry announced earlier this month. According to the ministry, three categories of people are considered “immunised” — those who have received two doses of coronavirus vaccine, those administered a single dose at least 14 days prior, and people who have recovered from the infection. The policy has effectively raised the Grand Mosque’s capacity during Ramadan to accommodate 50,000 umrah pilgrims and 100,000 worshippers per day, according to state media. It is unclear whether the policy, which comes amid an uptick in coronavirus infections in the kingdom, would be extended to the annual hajj pilgrimage later this year. In late July last year, the kingdom hosted a downsized hajj, one of the five pillars of Islam and a must for able-bodied Muslims at least once in their lifetime. Only up to 10,000 Muslim residents of Saudi Arabia itself were allowed to take part, a far cry from the 2.5 million Muslims from around the world who participated in 2019. Saudi Arabia has reported more than 400,000 coronavirus infections and 6,700 deaths from Covid-19. The daytime fasting month of Ramadan is one of the five pillars of Islam. Observant Muslims refrain from eating and drinking from dawn to dusk, and traditionally gather with family and friends to break their fast in the evening. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .