 Seun Osigbesan  According to Osigbesan who plays the ‘Jennifer’ character on Africa Magic TV series  ‘The Johnsons’, she was inspired to write about women out of passion she has for the gender. “I believe the world can’t be complete without women in it and that’s why God made her His last creation. God didn’t make the woman the ‘weaker vessel’ just so she can be bullied, manipulated, raped or enslaved by men. Yes, God cursed the woman and said, ‘your desire shall be for your husband and he shall rule over you’, but we are not under the curse of the law anymore. Jesus said, ‘husbands love your wives’. The brutality women go through today emanates from how the young men see the way their mothers are disrespected in the home.” She however said, “I believe a woman is more than just being a wife and mother. A woman is also creative and can be resourceful, God calls the Proverbs 31 woman, ‘a wise builder’ and so she can build anything.” On a personal experience that informed the book, Osigbesan noted, “I was inspired to write this book a day to my 34th birthday as I wasn’t really satisfied or impressed with my life achievements. I feel there’s more to me, I had dreams but I had wasted too much time dreaming. So I figured younger ladies and even married women can learn from my mistakes and regrets and I decided to put it into writing.” The graduate of Performing Arts from Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun state noted that the book is basically for women, both single and married. It is dedicated to all aspiring great women who are complacent with life or have given up on their dreams. This book is for women who desperately want more out of life. “Womanhood is a privilege. The menstrual cycle, pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding are all characteristics that are unique to the woman, which can really be tasking, coupled with the peculiarities of being a wife and mother. Womanhood is a huge responsibility, in it lays the great opportunity to birth and raise Kings and world changers, which in itself is fulfilling and rewarding. It is a huge privilege to be a woman and I am proud to be one.” Passionate about promoting the beauties of the African Culture, Osigbesan is equally keen about the empowerment of women and girls across the globe, hence the Total Woman Conference, which she birthed, is redefining womanhood by raising and building women to become holistically successful.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .