 UNIMAID. Photo: UGEDNUNEWS  The HIFL is a competition for Nigeria’s higher institutions organised by PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing Limited. In Lagos, the first game between ABUAD Stars and FUTA Tigers ended in a 1-1 draw. FUTA Tigers drew the first blood scoring in the 39th minute through Adejo Sunday before Egwuatu Ifeoluwa equalized for ABUAD Stars in the 72nd minute. The match between Niger Delta University Oilers and FUOYE Dazzlers at the University of Benin Sports Complex also ended in a 1-1 draw. Ifeanyi Samuel scored the opener for NDU Oilers before Amietimi Emmanuel equalized for the FUOYE Dazzlers. The thrilling encounter of the day happened at the Bayero University, Kano, where University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID) Desert Warriors and Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU) Bravehearts produced five goals. Oche Elijah of UNIMAID opened the scoring seven minutes into the match before Idris Bulus doubled the advantage in the 27th minute. Lotan Pwalwari pulled one back for ATBU in the 34th minute before Jehu Bilyork equalized for the team one minute into the second half of the encounter. Determined to win their first match, Abubakar Sanni restored UNIMAID’s advantage in the 48th minute to end the match 3-2 in favour of UNIMAID Desert Warriors. The match between UNN Warriors and FUNAI Hawks at the University of Uyo Sports complex ended 2-0 in favour of the Warriors. Goals from Utazi Chigozie and Amichebe Elvis ensured that the Hawks were left with no carcass to feed on after the dwell. Speaking on the games, Director, PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing, Mr. Sola Fijabi said, “it feels good to have these young people back doing what they like to do best. As a Company, we are determined to provide avenues for Nigerian youths to put their energy into good use, to add value to themselves and society. We thank the Nigerian University Games Association for partnering with us and indeed our esteemed sponsors for supporting the actualization of this dream which has become a reality and now in its third active season”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .