 Joshua Ajayi, publisher, Brand Communicator; Dr.Olalekan Fadolapo, Registrar/ CEO of the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON); Alhaji Garba Bello Kankarofi, former APCON Registrar/ CEO and Steve Babaeko, AAAN President at the IMC Industry Grand Reception organised for Dr. Fadolapo held recently in Lagos.<br />  Speaking at IMC industry grand reception organised by Brand Communicator in collaboration with the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN) in honour of the Registrar and Chief Executive of Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON), Dr. Olalekan Fadolapo, the practitioners also called for the inauguration of APCON council’s inauguration. Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN) President, Steve Babaeko, stated that clients and agencies have been getting away with a lot of things, insisting that there is a need to streamline the industry and work on Standards Of Practice that would “guide our relationship with clients in order to have a much more robust industry.” He observed that old gender stereotyping in communications is another issue to deal with, adding that inaugurating APCON council is long overdue. “The council has not sat for some time,” he noted. Chairman, Lagos Chapter, Nigeria Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), Segun Mcmedal, stated that as a result of COVID-19, the advertising industry was hit hard, “so, the new APCON Registrar needs to come up with ideas to bring the industry out of the doldrums.” Former APCON Registrar/CEO, Alhaji Garba Bello Kankarofi, advised the new registrar to regulate and not strangulate practitioners in the industry. The practitioners also described the new registrar as a great practitioner who will live up to expectations. According to Babaeko, “Dr. Fadolapo was one of our own until Federal Government decided to snatch him away. Government got it right in his appointment. He has worked with AAAN, ADVAN APCON, and others. He understands what the issues are.” President, Experiential Marketers Association of Nigeria (EXMAN), Tade Adekunle, described him as a humble man who is very knowledgeable in the field. Similarly, Mcmedal said that in the next few years, “we will begin to see positive changes. Alhaji Kankarofi did very well. And I know that you will surpass his achievements. You must listen to others.” Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN) President, Bunmi Adeniba, said the new registrar has what it requires for the job. “We are at the table, united and the conversation is ongoing. I have huge respect for heads of other sectoral groups. And whenever we interact, you will sense that they are really committed,” Adeniba said. Chief Press Secretary to Lagos State Governor, Gboyega Akosile, said, “Lekan is my childhood friend and I know he would succeed. He is a listening and calm person.” Responding, Fadolapo said he would embark on industry reform, addressing tax-related issues, copyright issues, agencies pitching for government communications jobs among others. According to him, “the industry reform has been a major challenge. The industry reform can create jobs, the industry reform will improve the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of APCON and the government, and it will help us stabilise our industry. I spoke to the president of all the sectoral groups and they all agreed we need to go ahead with the industry reform.” On when APCON council will be inaugurated, he said, “do not forget it is not that they did not appoint members for the council, but members that were appointed were not selected in line with the established act of APCON, consequently they cannot be inaugurated and as at today the honourable minister has written to the President, the letter is with the chief of staff and I’m also aware that the Presidency is looking into the issue and soon a new council may be announced.” He added that APCON is talking to the Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) on the possibility of setting up a help desk for agencies that need advice on ownership of copyright and copyright issues. “We will be organising a webinar soon and the DG has agreed to speak on this issue,” he stated. Until his appointment, Fadolapo, a registered advertising practitioner and a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) was the Executive Secretary of the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .