Kano state governor, Ganduje Suppliers of food items to public boarding schools in Kano have appealed to government for urgent settlement of over N1.3billion debt. Worried by the burden of the debt, the food contractors lamented economic hardship presently threatening the survival of their businesses. The government had postponed the second term resumption by one week because of her inability to fund food supply to boarding schools, The Guardian learnt. The registered food vendors, who are responsible for supply of raw consumable to all the public boarding schools in the state, claimed that government refused to pay food bills of 21 weeks. One of the leaders of the contractors, who spoke with The Guardian on condition of anonymity because of fear of victimisation, regretted the negligence of government to considered their plight. The contractor, who spoke on behalf of members expressed shock over the sudden termination of their contract and appointment of a private committee to take control of food supply without formal notice. Although, it was gathered that government resorted to alternative sources due to contractors resistance, the representative of the vendors denied withdrawing their services because of the debt. “For over 21 weeks we never stop the chain of food supply to boarding schools despite the fact that the government is owing us over N1.3billion,” the contractor said. “It is even worse because our contract was terminated just because we demanded for our payment. This is shocking and disturbing. “Our contract was terminated without prior knowledge yet our outstanding was not settled. For almost seven occasions, the government pledged to pay but never fulfil the promise. “We were just informed unofficially that the members of the state government committee was established to take full control of food supply to schools. All we want to say is to appeal to the government to pay our outstanding because the majority of our members are bankrupt already”. Efforts to confirm the development and allegations against the government was not fruitful as the commissioner for education Muhammad Sanusi failed to respond to inquiry. The Commissioner did not picked his call and declined response to text message.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .