 Governor of Zamfara State Bello Matawalle  Matawalle made the appeal at Arewa House, Kaduna State, shortly after he received ‘Icon of Youth and Student Development’ award from the leadership of Northern Youths and Students Forum. Represented by Kabiru Palace, representing Gusau/Tsafe Constituency, Zamfara, in the House of Representatives, Matawalle said his administration engaged youths more than any administration in the state, despite security challenges. “I am a youth like you and it’s high time we participated more in politics. We have no reason to hide. This country is about to collapse and the only way forward is for us, the youths, to rescue this country. “There is need for our youth to involve themselves more in politics. If we look at the population of this country, the youths are the majority. So, it is high time more youths came out to participate in governance, so they can move the country forward,” the governor stated. According to him, youths, who lack the wherewithal to participate in elective office should join a political party and be active. He added: “Our challenge as youths sometimes is ourselves; youths discouraging youths. If our youths can come together, with our number as voters, we can lead the country from the presidency down to the councillorship. “If our youths are actively involved in politics, they will become party executive and, as such, they will be able to reduce sale of forms at very affordable rates.” Earlier, Secretary-General, Northern Youths and Students Forum, Aliyu Ahmad, had said: “Today, the leadership of this forum has honoured a leader par excellence, a highly intellectual personality, a mentor, a role model who has been contributing tremendously towards the development of northern Nigeria’s youths and students. “Our award is a kind of appreciation and encouragement for the services you have rendered towards the development of northern Nigeria. You are an outstanding governor of Northern Nigeria.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .