Nigerians React As Twitter Builds Its Headquarter In Ghana On Monday, Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s founder, announced that Twitter headquarters in Africa has been built in Ghana. Dorsey’s tweet announcing news of the hires on Monday said: “Twitter is now present on the continent.” Ghana’s support for free speech and online freedoms made it the company’s choice for its first African location, Twitter said. Ghana’s President Nana Akufo-Addo said in a tweet that the country would be the location of Twitter’s headquarters on the continent, although this information was not included in the company’s statement. He said: The choice of Ghana as HQ for Twitter’s Africa operations is EXCELLENT news. This is the start of a beautiful partnership between Twitter and Ghana, which is critical for the development of Ghana’s hugely important tech sector. This has generated lots of reactions from Twitter users in Nigeria; a surprise that Nigeria, thought bragging to be the Giant of Africa, has been sidelined in a huge technological development like this. Below are some reactions: Jack put Twitter headquarters for Ghana because he know say una no dey get light for Nigeria — Samuel Mbah (@Mbahdeyforyou) April 12, 2021  Ghana  has made a lot of progress in the last decade and there is so much Nigeria  can learn from them. First of, peace and stability helps. We need to significantly deal with insecurity in Nigeria. Then, the constant policy summersault and irrational regulations must end. — Dr. Dípò Awójídé (@OgbeniDipo) April 12, 2021  If Twitter HQ declares billion dollar revenue, FIRS staff will go and padlock their gate and Lai will be shouting that we are one of their biggest markets.. They better stay in Ghana where the biggest risk is a surplus of boiled eggs. — Gene Grey (@EuginhoCortez) April 12, 2021  I am happy that Twitter is building a dev team in Africa. The team is focused on Africa’s LARGEST market (Nigeria) but will be based in its SANEST market (Ghana). Sanity > ingenuity. Nobody wants to deal with erratic regulators, poor infrastructure, and security concerns. — Dr. Tayo Oyedeji (@tayooye) April 13, 2021  In GHANA, you get a SIM at the airport. In NIGERIA, you get a SIM while boarding your flight back, after 7 days trip: Day 1-2: Apply & receive BVN Day 3-6: Apply & receive NIN Day 7: Get SIM The Ease of doing business in 21st century Nigeria, under @MBuhari & @ProfOsinbajo — Adetutu Balogun, MBA (@Tutsy22) April 13, 2021  Let me make you guys get angry the more. Role based in Ghana  but focus is on Nigeria . See what our government bad policy is doing to Tech bros. I don’t blame Jack one bit! He made the right decision. pic.twitter.com/CWpy49jCGq — Wale Adetona (@iSlimfit) April 12, 2021  Y’all protesting against Twitter’s decision to have their HQ in Ghana lmao  do you want jack to wake up one day and hear that his country director had been kidnapped? Reason with him naaaaa — Akeula Trendy™ (@akeula_trendy) April 12, 2021  Why Ghana?
“Ghana’s recent appointment to host The Secretariat of the African Continental Free Trade Area aligns with…efforts to improve and tailor our service across Africa.”
As promised #AfCFTA = Jobs for Ghanaians. More to come!  https://t.co/tMky8uO2ke — Alan John Kyerematen (@AlanKyerematen) April 12, 2021 