 [FILE] Applicants queue to obtain national identity numbers at the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) office, in the Lagos state capital of Ikeja. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  Nearly 10 days after the Federal Government lifted the ban on sales and registration of new Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) cards, telecommunications operators are yet to commence sales and retrieval of lines.
  
All throughout last week, The Guardian checks across some service centres in Lagos showed that none of the operators visited had commenced retrieval and sales of new SIMs.
   
Subscribers, who were at some of the centres, especially to retrieve old SIMs, expressed frustrations, as they were turned back.
A customer, who spoke with The Guardian at the Fatai Atere MTN office, claimed the operators said he should come back by ending of the month, as they were yet to start.  The Guardian also gathered that part of the new SIM registration rules is that sales will only be within designated, official telecoms’’ offices. This means that henceforth, government has banned third party franchise for SIM sales.
   
Explaining this, an industry source said Nigerians can only purchase and register new SIM cards only at telecoms firms’ outlets. Furthermore, all those roadside and umbrella telecoms ‘operators’ and agents across the country are out of jobs.
   
The source said the ban on roadside and under umbrella sales and registration of SIM cards was part of the conditions agreed to by the mobile network operators (MNOs) for the Federal Government to lift the embargo on SIM registration.
   
According to the source, “under the new regulation, sale and registration of SIMs are to be done only at “controlled environments”, which means that registration of new SIMs are to be done majorly at service providers’ buildings to be manned by staff, who must have obtained the National Identification Number (NIN).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .