Catholic Priest and spiritual director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu Nigeria (AMEN), Reverend Father Ejike Mbaka has called for the impeachment of President Muhammadu Buhari over the rising insecurity in the country. Mbaka stated that it was sad how Buhari could maintain grave silence in the midst of the killings and deaths in the country, insisting that he may have lost touch with realities. Speaking during worship on Wednesday evening in Enugu, he told his congregation that no civilized leader would remain in power with the spate of violence and ugly deaths that have bedeviled the nation. “How can people be dying, the chief security officer of the country will be sitting down without making any comment,” Mbaka said. “Gunmen attacking people everywhere. Buhari should have resigned honorably following his failure as a leader. Let me tell you if it is in a civilized country, by now, President Buhari will resign with what is happening. So it is amazing that he has chosen to sit tight while people are dying anyhow.” Mbaka called on the National Assembly to swing into action and remove the president, should he fail to resign, saying that Nigerians are faced with great difficulty created by poverty and insecurity. “Nigerians are crying because there’s no security in the country. The National Assembly should impeach the president if he doesn’t want to resign,” Mbaka said. Mbaka warned the lawmakers that should they fail to impeach the president and begin to attack him; “…something worse than what they can never imagine will happen to the members.” Mbaka emphasized that the nation cannot continue the way it is, warning that “enough has to be enough. There is time for everything” He also prayed to God to change the heart of the leaders, wondering how someone can become a billionaire with the commonwealth of the people. Mbaka also frowned at the activities of herdsmen that destroy the farmland of people without any repercussion and called on them to retreat. He asked church leaders to come together and pray for God’s intervention on the land, insisting that they would not be spared should the present violence and killings continue in the land. “I plead that the church leaders will understand me as a messenger of God and not begin to attack me because the danger is going to affect the church,” Mbaka said. “When gunmen begin to strike inside the church, they will begin to kill one man of God or the other or even members of the church, who will go to the church again? The priests will lose their job, the Bishops will lose their jobs. So you better keep quiet or support what I’m saying.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .