  Despite vaccine hesitancy over issues of efficacy and side effects, as well as procurement challenges, more countries, airlines and destinations have endorsed the COVID-19 vaccine passport regime, especially as the promise of summer travel is becoming more real after the lull in last year’s summer travels due to pandemic lockdown and restrictions.  Globally, more than three million people have now died from the coronavirus. The number of lives lost, as compiled by Johns Hopkins University, is about equal to the population of Kyiv (Ukraine), Caracas (Venezuela) or Lisbon (Portugal). The vaccination campaigns are speeding up but rising cases have forced new lockdowns and restrictions around the world. India yesterday recorded a new high of more than 261,000 daily coronavirus cases. Statistics by the Health Ministry revealed that 261,500 cases were registered in the past 24 hours, which pushed the total to 14.7 million. There were 1,500 deaths, taking the number of fatalities to 177,150.  Some countries, most of them with economies dependent on tourism, are pushing ahead either with real vaccine passport plans or allowing vaccinated visitors to skip quarantine requirements for entry. The private sector, most notably cruise lines and airlines, is also eagerly climbing aboard. Proving you are vaccinated to travel abroad isn’t a new concept though. Some countries have required Yellow Fever vaccines for years, but doing so for COVID-19 would be on a far grander scale than ever before and would present immense logistical challenges. Passport sceptics also predict they could result in discrimination and fraud, encourage risky behaviour in the face of new coronavirus variants.  More than 884 million vaccine doses have been administered worldwide, equal to 11 doses for every 100 people, across 155 countries, according to data collected by Bloomberg. The latest rate was roughly 17 million doses a day.
  
The vaccine uptake in many parts of the world is still very low, especially in the African continent. There is already a stark gap between vaccination programmes in different countries, with many yet to report a single dose with less than 2% of the vaccine doses administered in Africa, where most countries received vaccines only five weeks ago and in small quantities. Nigeria for instance has vaccinated just over a million of its 200 million-plus population, while there is no date yet on when it will receive more batches of the vaccine for the second jab and the rest of the population not yet vaccinated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .