4 Signs Your Private Part Says About Your Health As A Woman Taking care of your health must be a priority for you and this includes your vaginal. It is advisable to take changes in your vaginal serious. Your vagina goes through a lot of changes in a single month. All these changes point to the state of your health. Hence, it is very important to understand your vagina. Below are some signs your vagina gives you to indicate you have to visit your doctor: Odour
If you are self-conscious about your vaginal odour then you are not alone. Most women feel that way but a normal odour may include a mild, musky scent that is not unpleasant. In case your vaginal odour is different, it can be because of many reasons like washing your vagina with dry soap, wearing sanitary products for too long, and excessive sweating. It can also be because of bacterial infection and trichomoniasis—a sexually transmitted infection. Once you notice an unpleasant smell from your vaginal, see a doctor. Discharges
You have probably experienced vaginal discharge, most women do. In addition, you already know that it changes throughout your menstrual cycle. Most of the time, vaginal discharge is normal but the amount can vary, as can odour. But, if you notice that the discharge is yellow or green, has clumps in it and is smelling bad, then you should speak with your doctor. It could be an indication of a vaginal infection. Vaginal itching
In case you experience an excessive urge to itch your vagina, it could very well be a sign for you to take note of as it is not normal for any part of your cervix or vulva to itch, hurt, or burn. Although the reasons for itching can vary from an infection such as thrush to bacterial vaginosis and sexually transmitted infection (STI), it is always advisable to consult a doctor for timely diagnosis and initiation of treatment if required. Painful sex or urination
Pain during sex or urination and should not be ignored. Such vaginal pain could be a condition called dyspareunia (painful intercourse), caused due to insufficient lubrication during sex and/or lack of sexual arousal. The pain could also be a manifestation of underlying psychological issues such as anxiety, depression and stress, which are known factors for lowering arousal levels, that could result in discomfort or pain during sex. When it comes to changes in your vaginal, always endeavour to reach out to your doctor, irrespective of how minor you think the signs are.