National Coordinator, Community Sport and Educational Development (CSED), Edema Fuludu, at the IDPs Camp Uhogua, Edo State to celebrate events marking April 6 International Day of Sport for Development and Peace Former Super Eagles player, Edema Fuludu was among top dignitaries present at the residents of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp Uhogua, Edo State, as Nigerians and people all over the world celebrated events marking April 6 as the International Day of Sport for Development and Peace (IDSDP). The event, which was held at various playgrounds at the Camp was facilitated by CSED (Community Sport and Educational Development) Initiative. It was the second time CSED Initiative used sports to inspire and engage the youths of the Camp by celebrating IDSDP with them. Three major sporting events (Netball training/matches, Badminton training/matches and 5-A-side football training and penalty kicks competition) were held during the ceremony. Taking part in these games elicited a lot of excitement from the residents. The winners and runners-up of the three sports categories received cash prizes from CSED National Coordinator, Edema Fuludu. However, it was not all training and playing, as the camp residents also had food donated to them by CSED Initiative. The items include: ten 50kg bags of rice, cartons of packed fish, basket of tomatoes, groundnut oil and other cooking condiments that was meant for the dinner of the about 5,000 residents of the Camp. The assistant resident senior pastor of the Camp, Pastor Evelyn Ekhator, and other leaders of the Camp thanked the Trustees of CSED for their continuous support of the educational and sporting activities of the residents of the Camp. Pastor Ekhator expressed the happiness and joy the event of IDSDP brought to the residents of the Camp, just as it was noted that taking part in sport exercises helped most of the children/youth of the Camp to cope with isolation caused by the lockdown following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .