Vertiv (www.Vertiv.com/en-emea) (NYSE: VRT), a global provider of critical digital infrastructure and continuity solutions, today announced the opening of a new factory in Rugvica, Croatia to support its integrated modular solutions (IMS) business in EMEA. Compared to the previous factory, the site offers 130% more indoor space and 60% more outdoor space and can easily be expanded to seize the opportunities of the rapidly growing prefabricated modular data centers (PFM) market. The factory also includes a number of innovations for the construction of PFM modules as well as thermal management air handling units.  “We hear a lot about IT trends and the upcoming advances in technologies such as of 5G, IoT, and AI, but less about the innovative physical infrastructure that’s behind it,” says Giordano Albertazzi, president for Vertiv in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). “We are seeing strong growth in the adoption of prefabricated modular solutions to support these new technologies, and as market leaders we are investing both in capacity and innovation to continue to meet our customers’ needs and stay ahead of the curve. This new site ultimately means supporting the plans and enabling the success of our EMEA and global customers, and is reflective of our continued investment in the markets in which we operate.” “The Rugvica factory boasts all the latest technologies, production processes, tools and testing labs,” says Viktor Petik, VP for Vertiv’s IMS business in EMEA. “The facility is designed to provide a complete range of prefabricated modular solutions, from cable landing stations powering the internet and connecting geographies, to bespoke data centre building blocks. The new factory testifies our commitment towards innovation and growth, and I am proud to say that we’ve created about 150 jobs in the last year, many being engineering or skilled professionals from this region.” Last year, Vertiv was ranked by technology analyst firm Omdia as one of the leading suppliers in the PFM data centre market (https://bit.ly/3nnQHdD) with the second highest market share worldwide. The research highlighted that benefits such as the ability to scale with confidence (https://bit.ly/3xnjFPv) are driving significant growth in the adoption of PFM solutions in all geographies. Omdia attributed this strong growth to factors including scalability, the benefits of offsite manufacturing and integration, and speed of deployment. PFM data centres come in many different forms with varying use cases, including IT and facility-specific designs and so-called all-in-one modules with integrated IT, power, and cooling infrastructure, which are commonly used in education, industrial, and healthcare applications as well as remote and harsh environments. The ‘plug and play’ approach has the benefit of not only cutting the time for start-up and commissioning, to just a few days instead of weeks or months, but also reducing the potential for quality issues, as components are pre-integrated and pre-tested off-site. Vertiv’s PFM designs cover a range of different offerings to meet specific customer needs, such as the Vertiv™ SmartMod™ (https://bit.ly/3aDWXss), a fully self-contained, easily-configurable and ready-to-order PFM product range that enables new data centre whitespace to be rapidly deployed, and the Vertiv™ Power Module (https://bit.ly/3eBS4kH), an efficient, power-dense critical infrastructure that can be quickly deployed as a standalone unit. Vertiv also provides completely custom PFM solutions, which include design, project management and system integration. To learn more about how Vertiv can help data centre owners and operators to scale with confidence, visit www.Vertiv.com/SWC. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Vertiv. Media contact:
Zenab Abbas
E Zenab.Abbas@Vertiv.com About Vertiv:
Vertiv (NYSE: VRT) brings together hardware, software, analytics and ongoing services to ensure its customers’ vital applications run continuously, perform optimally and grow with their business needs. Vertiv solves the most important challenges facing today’s data centers, communication networks and commercial and industrial facilities with a portfolio of power, cooling and IT infrastructure solutions and ser vices that extends from the cloud to the edge of the network. Headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, USA, Vertiv employs approximately 20,000 people and does business in more than 130 countries. For more information, and for the latest news and content from Vertiv, visit Vertiv.com. Forward-Looking Statements:
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27 of the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. These statements are only a prediction. Actual events or results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statement set forth herein. Readers are referred to Vertiv’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for a discussion of these and other important risk factors concerning Vertiv and its operations. Vertiv is under no obligation to, and expressly disclaims any obligation to, update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .