ICPC Chairman of Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, has lamented non- implementation of laws and policies aimed at curbing corruption and indiscipline in the country. Owasanoye, who made the comment in Abuja, yesterday, at a one-day stakeholders zonal dialogue on implementation of National Ethics and Integrity Policy, maintained that absence of sanction and reward regimes has been the bane of implementation of previous policies. “It is, therefore, our hope that the consequent management and implementation strategy will help in the proper enforcement of this policy,” he added. The ICPC chairman further observed that absence of old values of integrity, human dignity, nationalism and participation is responsible for the high level of corruption in the society today. Admitting that the country is not lacking laws and policies aimed at curbing corruption, Owasanoye said effective implementation and enforcement based on well-designed and implementable Standard Operational Procedure (SOP) was needed to reverse the trend.
According to the ICPC boss, the National Ethics and Integrity Policy contains features such as consequence management and implementation template that specifies how the policy should be implemented. Owasanoye said the dialogue would take place across the country on zonal basis, involving all segments of the society, especially the youths. According to him, the policy seeks to promote societal core values of human dignity, voice and participation, patriotism, personal responsibility, integrity, national unity and professionalism. In his presentation, ICPC Director of Education, Mohammed Ashiru Baba, stressed the need for the society to punish people who violate core values by isolating, naming and shaming them. Baba urged stakeholders to understand specific actions they need to take to prevent infractions from occurring and recurring.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .