 Ibadan  Residents of Igangan in Ibarapa North Local Area of Oyo State yesterday vowed never to allow the Seriki Fulani, Abdulkadri Saliu, to return to the community. Speaking with The Guardian in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, the convener, Igangan Development Advocates, Oladiran Oladokun, said accepting Saliu back in the town was tantamount to suicide. Oladokun was reacting to a statement made by Saliu that he’d consider moving back to Igangan if given the chance. It would be recalled that Sunday Adeyemo alias Sunday Igboho had asked herdsmen accused of perpetrating sundry crimes in Ibarapaland to leave within seven days. Following the expiration of this ultimatum, Igangan residents with the support of Adeyemo ejected Saliu and his herders from the town. Oladokun said farmers now have renewed hope of returning to their farms to continue farming without fear of being raped, kidnapped and killed. “People are now thinking of going back to their farms with hope of a better life and you want to take that hope from them? Our people won’t allow that. Some people think what happened in Igangan was an exaggeration. Why is it that on every occasion, no Fulani was ever prosecuted? If Saliu is really who he claims to be and he cares so much about us, why did he not bring out at least one culprit and say, ‘Igangan people, this one that you claimed killed a farmer last week, this is him. We don’t want criminals amongst us, we don’t people to tarnish our image.’ Why hasn’t he done that over the years? Seriki claimed he had no control over Igangan but it is a lie; he held control over the town and the killings, he held sway over Igangan, even the Asigangan of Igangan land and the chiefs were helpless and they bowed to him. That is why they committed crime anyhow, they would go to him (Seriki) and he would ask them to relax even if they killed or raped a woman on the farm. He would tell them it was the Ja’mah (congregation) that did it”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .