Blue Prism (AIM: PRSM) (http://investors.BluePrism.com) today announced a new offering of Blue Prism intelligent automation software on Microsoft’s AppSource and Azure Marketplaces. The move enhances access for both Blue Prism and Microsoft customers, and underwrites Blue Prism’s position as the intelligent automation and robotic process automation (RPA) leader in the cloud.  Blue Prism customers already have access to a scalable, enterprise-ready platform that combines robotic automation and smart workflows with technologies like machine learning, advanced analytics, natural language processing, process mining, and cognitive capabilities and this offering allows Blue Prism robots greater access to Microsoft Azure Apps too, with access to over 175 accelerators for Microsoft products within Blue Prism’s Digital Exchange.  The new Bring Your Own License (BYOL) offering for Azure Marketplace and AppSource is pre-loaded with select Azure Cognitive Services – including Azure Text Analytics, Azure Form Recognizer and Azure Computer Vision – all of which customers can license directly through Microsoft. This combines with Blue Prism Digital Exchange (bit.ly/3hPpe1r) where users can access more than 175 accelerators for Microsoft products to further enhance their enterprise automations.  “This combination of Blue Prism and Azure Cognitive Services gives our customers a greater choice with AI-enabled, self-service experience that is provisioned via Microsoft Azure,” says Chief Partner Strategy Officer at Blue Prism, Linda Dotts. “Advanced intelligent automation in the cloud provides multiple advantages for our customers, most notably the ability to instantly scale to meet enterprise demands.”  Blue Prism accelerators now exists for Microsoft Power Platform (bit.ly/3rYSHe1), Microsoft’s Power Automate gallery, Microsoft’s Healthcare Cloud; with Form Recognizer (bit.ly/2KZ96Pj), Text Analytics and Azure Computer Vision.  It also adds to the company’s growing portfolio of cloud offerings (bit.ly/2Lq0ocu), which include its Blue Prism Cloud SaaS platform (bit.ly/3nkfTjp), and expands a cloud strategy (bit.ly/3hPuVN5) that not only centres on making intelligent automation more accessible, but that also aligns with customer desires for interoperability, expanded automation solutions, consumable and extensible artificial intelligence, and a seamless intelligent automation journey.  “Customers can embrace the transformative potential of intelligent automation and drive impactful change within their organisations, and this is now fully supported by Microsoft,” says CEO and Executive Chairman of Blue Prism, Jason Kingdon, “We are offering customers more flexible cloud deployment options delivering on Blue Prism’s vision of giving customers end-to-end automation solutions that cover the broadest range of IT environments, including on-premises, hybrid, public cloud, and SaaS.  Find out more
Find out (bit.ly/3nhy1uh) about the Blue Prism and Microsoft relationship and how we work together. Explore Blue Prism offerings on Azure Marketplace (bit.ly/3929xQG) and start automating today. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Blue Prism. Media Contact:
Paul Taylor
Blue Prism
paul.taylor@blueprism.com  About Blue Prism:
Blue Prism (www.BluePrism.com) is the global leader in intelligent automation for the enterprise, transforming the way work is done. At Blue Prism, we have users in over 170 countries in more than 2,000 businesses, including Fortune 500 and public sector organisations, that are creating value with new ways of working, unlocking efficiencies, and returning millions of hours of work back into their businesses. Our digital workforce is smart, secure, scalable and accessible to all; freeing up humans to re-imagine work. Blue Prism’s vision is to provide a digital workforce for every enterprise. To learn more visit www.BluePrism.com and follow us on Twitter @blue_prism (bit.ly/3olGm1w) and on LinkedIn (bit.ly/2MwmRVO).  © 2020 Blue Prism Limited. “Blue Prism”, the “Blue Prism” logo and Prism device are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Blue Prism Limited and its affiliates. All Rights Reserved. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .