 NSCDC  The document, titled “Fraud in all the agencies under the Federal Ministry of Interior” and sent to the minister, Rauf Aregbesola, and the media, made several corruption allegations against heads of the affected agencies. Electronically signed by some officers, the group appealed to the minister to investigate the deployment of all foreign aid in the last five years. The petitioners said they were constrained to urgently draw the attention of the minister to “the perennial and undermining fraudulent acts being perpetrated by the leadership of all the paramilitary agencies and their shameless collaborators before it gets out of hand.” They also urged Aregbesola to look into ‘disparities’ in emoluments of officers with those outside the ministry “such as the Nigeria police, as well as the payment of promotion arrears of men of the NSCDC, as officers were paid less than N4, 000 in respect of over two years promotion arrears.” The complainants went on: “Sir, the following are our prayers: Probe into the reason for the non-implementation of the 2018 salary review in NSCDC, NIS, and NCoS which had been implemented in the police and other Federal Government agencies. “Probe into the callous, sadistic and arbitrary removal of the Shift Allowance from the salaries of NSCDC officers in the year 2016, and the incomplete refund of the said allowance, as well as the refund for eight months of the allowance that is still outstanding, including promotion allowances of 2016-2017.” Other issues raised in the document, include “45 per cent salary deductions made in the name of loans that were never taken and other salary deductions.” “Sir, we are helpless. We are powerless. But we have the firm belief that you are sent to the ministry by the Almighty God to liberate us from the hand of the Pharaohs that are bestriding all the agencies under your ministry. Please, sir, see to our pleas and do the needful,” the memo added. Efforts to reach the public relations officers of the NSCDC and the ministry for remarks were unsuccessful, as both of them were said to be out of Abuja. The Presidency, Senate President, House of Representatives Speaker, National Human Rights Commission and Mr. Femi Falana, SAN were also reportedly copied. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .