Signs exclusive ten-year lease for approximately 13,000 square meters of office and warehousing space at the newly-developed Skyparks Business Estate near Oliver Reginald (O.R.) Tambo International Airport; the new facility will boast 10,000 square meters of warehousing space, doubling the existing capacity to meet future demand.  In a strategic move that reinforces its commitment to the country, DHL Global Forwarding (www.DPDHL.com) is investing ZAR 126.5 million into a new facility in Johannesburg. Aimed at cementing its market-leading position in South Africa, the new 13,000 sqm facility will be located within the bonded (http://bit.ly/35ucloI) zone at Skyparks Business Estate – a hair’s breadth from the O.R. Tambo International Airport. Clement Blanc, Managing Director, DHL Global Forwarding, South Africa said, “While it’s too early to fully grasp the economic impact of the current pandemic, our confidence in investing ahead of the curve is abetted by our diverse service portfolio and long-established foothold in Africa. As the world’s largest free trade (http://bit.ly/38G1YAp) area moves toward economic integration, our five-year strategy (http://bit.ly/3oDkcbc) to sharpen our core business offerings and accelerate digitalization will further our growth in the region and specifically, in South Africa.” Twice the size of its current set-up, this new facility will consist of a 10,000 sqm warehouse that enables the leading forwarder to consolidate all its customers’ warehousing requirements. There will be an exclusive and specialized cold chain (http://bit.ly/3oIIssA) facility that consists of three adjustable temperature controlled refrigerators geared to handle the life science and healthcare products in and out of South Africa. The warehouse will also support other value added services including cross-docking, storage for air, ocean and road freight services, and a platform for breakbulk cargo (http://bit.ly/3bzKaZk). “Custom-built to our world-class specifications and located in proximity to the airport, arterial thoroughfares and upcoming industrial parks, this new facility will be the game-changer for DHL in the country. We are well-poised to focus on delivering excellence to our customers as we surround ourselves with the critical infrastructure that is needed to enhance our productivity and efficiency,” added Blanc. Even as the South African economy is expected to inch forward by about 1-2% (http://bit.ly/2K7UTiv) in the next two years, industry observers are optimistic that the government’s commitment to improve investment and efforts to revitalize townships and industrial parks will reap much-needed benefits. Equally, a flourishing e-commerce sector will drive greater demand (http://bit.ly/35udHQk) for retail warehousing and distribution space, especially for perishables and fast-moving consumer goods. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Deutsche Post DHL. Note to Editors: To find out more about Africa’s e-commerce (http://bit.ly/38CuKlf) industry, growth of intra-Africa trade (http://bit.ly/35zYRYB) or explore further insights on the logistics industry and global trade, please visit Logistics of Things (https://lot.dhl.com). Media Contact:
DHL Asia Pacific & EEMEA                           
Corporate Communications, Sustainability and Brand
Jenny Yeo / Fiona Teo
Tel: +65 6879 8332 / +65 6879 8333
E-mail: apeemeamediarelations@dhl.com About DHL – The Logistics Company for the World:
DHL (www.DPDHL.com) is the leading global brand in the logistics industry. Our DHL divisions offer an unrivalled portfolio of logistics services ranging from national and international parcel delivery, e-commerce shipping and fulfilment solutions, international express, road, air and ocean transport to industrial supply chain management. With about 380,000 employees in more than 220 countries and territories worldwide, DHL connects people and businesses securely and reliably, enabling global sustainable trade flows. With specialized solutions for growth markets and industries including technology, life sciences and healthcare, engineering, manufacturing & energy, auto-mobility and retail, DHL is decisively positioned as “The logistics company for the world”. DHL is part of Deutsche Post DHL Group. The Group generated revenues of more than 63 billion euros in 2019. With sustainable business practices and a commitment to society and the environment, the Group makes a positive contribution to the world. Deutsche Post DHL Group aims to achieve zero-emissions logistics by 2050. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .