A Lagos-based real estate Company, Property World Africa Network (PWAN Group) has said its new project in Epe is tailored towards meeting the housing needs of low-income earners and reducing prevailing housing deficit in the country. The Chairman of PWAN, Dr. Augustine Onwumere, who spoke during the groundbreaking ceremony of Max Assets Phase One in Epe, Lagos, said the firm would work jointly with various governments and host communities to actualise the target. Max Assets Phase One housing project is strategically located along Epe-Ikorodu Expressway, few minutes’ drive from Lekki Free Trade Zone. It sits on exceedingly dry land and arable rolling planes. Part of the attractions the location holds for prospective investors is the glimpse it offers into the rich cultural values of the Epe people. Besides, Max Assets is considered the toast of property investors considering its high chances of a quick return on investment, cheap access to all parts of Lagos, and easy passage for people travelling out of the state.
The developer disclosed that it plans to develop buildings that cost below N10 million whether bungalow, one-bedroom, two-bedroom, or apartment buildings. He said, “We are already partnering with the community that sold the land to us, and we are not going to stop. This is an opportunity to witness the birth of a new estate and the birth of a new opportunity. Our own part is to fulfill the physical aspect.” The Business Development Manager of PWAN Max, Franklin Nwaigwe, who spoke at the event, explained, “We all know that Epe is one of the fastest developing locations in Lagos State, so we thought deeply about it that a lot of infrastructures is coming to this place. We also noted that with its serene environment, and rich cultural values, many people will come to stay here; looking at a whole lot of things and notable social amenities.” “From the Free Trade Zone to the Lekki Deep Sea Port, and the Lekki International Airport that is five minutes drive away from this estate, to Dangote Refineries and a host of other facilities and industries in Epe. For people to have a high return on their investments, Epe is the place they need to invest in.” Nwaigwe described the project Max as a unique pilot scheme that offers prospective clients the chance to either buy plots and build to their tastes or own a two-bedroom, three-bedroom, terrace house, and apartments in a serene country home with marvelous ambiance in a state. The Project Manager, Baron Okwuosa said “We are also engaging mortgage banks for people to utilise and actualise their homeownership without stress. With this scheme, we have come full circles on our promise of land, housing, and the means to make homeownership a reality and we are targeting the low and middle-income owners. One of the company’s Business Development Executives, Emmanuel Offo said, “A plot of 300 square meters in Max Assets goes for one million naira, 600 square meters plot costs two million naira, and clients spread the amount over a period of six months outright price. There is also a 12-month installment plan. With just N50, 000 initial deposit, anyone can just begin the journey into owning a home.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .