Athuman Hatibu and Witness Mushi A couple that works together, stays together? This might just be the case for this Tanzanian couple who work together as a bus driver and conductor. The couple Athuman Hatibu and Witness Mushi made headlines after it was discovered that they have been working together for five years. A graduate of mass communication Witness quit her job to support her husband after several complaints from him about inefficient conductors. In a chat with The Citizen, Witness said: “It was not an easy decision to make because I led a different lifestyle before starting out as a bus conductor. My husband had a lot of complaints about the previous conductors who worked with him and most of the complaints were about little fares collected at the end of the day. I then told him to give me a day to learn and identify all the bus stations and fares along the route so he could afterwards decide if we could work together.” Athuman swears by his wife’s efficiency as he began to notice a difference in the earnings when she took over as against the previous conductors he worked with. Citing a recent example when Witness had traveled and he hired his younger brother as a conductor, Athuman said, “working alongside my brother proved my point that no other person has ever reached the collection target my wife hits when she’s on duty.” On how they manage their work-life balance, they revealed that they wake up by 3am and hit the road by 4am. Work ends for them at 11pm after making 20 trips. At the end of each trip, they have a debriefing where Witness informs him of any incidents and tips from male passengers. Considering they are out for most of the day, they have two children in boarding school and the two others live with their grandparents. To ensure their personal life doesn’t interfere with work, the couple made a pact to never let the situation at home interfere with the work environment. Working together as a couple comes with its fair share of challenges, which includes passengers flirting with Witness, nor realizing she is married to the driver. “There are other times people approach me with different motives without the knowledge that the bus driver is my husband, and at times, it is literally the opposite. Sometimes passengers decline giving full amounts of bus fares once they reach their respective destinations,” Witness said. There is also the case of disrespect and verbal abuse that passengers hurl Witness’ way. According to Athuman, he is pained by this but chooses to focus on the road. The couple is optimistic that they would buy their own bus and even have plans of introducing their first son into the transport business. “The bus we are planning to buy will be coordinated by us and our son. He is currently upgrading his driving license,” he said.