 Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan PHOTO:Twitter  Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, yesterday, expressed disappointment that political leaders have continued to provide excuses as cover up for their failures in governance. According to him, the practice of giving excuses for not being able to deliver good governance by political leaders should be condemned and rejected. Lawan, who made the comment at an event held to mark his 62nd birthday in Abuja, advised all those leading the country at the moment to apply themselves fully to the service of the people as against rendering mediocre services and setting the pace for failure. “It is incumbent of all leaders at all levels to put ourselves together and address all challenges facing the country.  There are no excuses,” he stressed. The Senate president, who repeatedly vowed not to disappoint his Yobe North Senatorial District constituents, said he would prefer to quit his seat instead of doing things that are not in the best interest of his people. According to him, the National Assembly is experiencing its best performance during the current dispensation. Lawan said the Assembly was able to effect serious amendments to the “production sharing contract” to ensure that more money accrue to the purse of the Federal Government. “We were getting $216 million. The amendments we effected restored the revenue we were supposed to get and the money has now risen to $2 billion.” He disclosed that over $2 billion was attracted to the government purse as a result of those amendments. The Senate president alleged that some people within and outside the National Assembly were working against the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) that has been in the legislature since 2007 without success. Lawan refused to mention names of those sabotaging the passage of the bill and simply insisted that no matter the pressure, lawmakers in the present National Assembly would go to any length in passing the PIB. “When we resume, we will work on the PIB because the world is waiting. It is like a demon that had defied every effort in the past. There are people in and outside the country working against the passage of the PIB.” MEANWHILE, former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu, has congratulated Lawan, on turning 62 yesterday. He commended Lawan for providing collegial leadership in the Senate and fostering a harmonious relationship between the National Assembly and the executive. In a statement yesterday, the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), through his Media Aide, Mr. Tunde Rahman, said: “Lawan has helped the cause of national governance by providing consistent, collegial leadership in the Senate. This comes as no surprise given his academic background and legislative experience. “I commend him for his efforts to improve the legislative performance of the Senate and to forge a productive relationship with the executive branch. May he continue along this proper and vital path.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .