A 27 year old entrepreneur, Joshua Idiong has emerged as the season seven winner of reality TV show, The Next Titan Nigeria.
  
Idiong won N10 million grand prize after a rigorous pitch by four outstanding contestants out of the 16 who were shortlisted for a 10-week entrepreneurial boot camp.
   
A graduate of Federal University of Technology Owerri with Bachelor Degree in Environmental Science, he doubles as the Founder, Josult Oil Processing Company. He emerged the winner after slugging it out with Chidinma Eriobu, Ifeoma Benjamin, and Ifeanyi Nkwonta at the grand finale.
  
His business would produce palm oil through a more efficient method, as well as provide job opportunities for graduates and farmers in the agriculture sector. He has a vision that in the year 2025, his brand Josult Oil Processing Company would be a global brand and most sort out in every home.
   
Speaking after he was declared the winner, he said: “Before coming on the show, apart from wanting to win the cash prize, I had the expectation for a better network amongst other outstanding entrepreneurs. I wanted to meet with the high profiled business leaders who are the judges of the show, and I wanted to be a follower not just a leader because I have been doing that for a long time. And I can happily say that, The Next Titan Nigeria has given me all that and more”.
    
The Season 7 of the foremost entrepreneurial Reality TV Show recorded over 18,000 entries, followed by online auditions, before the top 16 moved into the TITAN HOUSE for 10 weeks to compete against one another in real-life entrepreneurial challenges.
   
The Next Titan Nigeria Season 7 ‘the unstoppable’ is sponsored by Heritage Bank Plc in association with Haven Homes, and Sifax Group, and with support of other notable brands in Nigeria.
  
Co-Founder/CEO Trans-Sahara Investment, (TSIC), Kyari Bukar, said entrepreneurs need various soft skills as business persons to sustain and stay in business.  According to him, entrepreneurs can’t be business person without being a front desk person    
  
Founder of CPMS Africa, Chris Parkes, stressed the need for entrepreneurs to get good advisers to help get rid or minimize mistakes in running a smooth business.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .