 [FILES] An APC flag is pictured at the All Progressive Congress (APC) national headquarters . REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde  Okoya-Thomas made the remarks when he paid a condolence visit to the family of Gbadebo in Ijede area of Ikorodu, Lagos on Saturday. She said the deceased was a great politician, very loyal to the party and took party affairs’ seriously. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Gbadebo died on Jan. 24 at the age of 68 during a brief illness in Lagos. Okoya-Thomas said: “The deceased, during her lifetime, stood for unity and togetherness, always projecting image of the party and championing policies that will impact positively on the lives of party members and the poor masses. “We came here to eulogise her. The family should not allow the vacuum to show, they should follow her foot steps and build on the legacies she left behind. “I am saddened by her death. She  was a great mobiliser when you talk about party mobilisation in Lagos. “She was a loyal party woman and committed democrat with a deep understanding of the community’s political landscape and never gave up on any responsibility. “During the last election, we realised her efforts in ensuring that APC candidates emerged as winners of the Lagos East Senatorial District. “Fausat Gbadebo served her people and Lagos State passionately as the pioneer Chairman of Ijede Local Council Developmental Area (LCDA). “She made positive contributions and turn around Ijede Community during her tenure as the chairman.” Okoya-Thomas said that Gbadebo would be missed by the entire political class, particularly the people of Ijede,  Lagos East Senatorial District and the state as a whole. She prayed that God would grant the soul of Gbadebo eternal rest in Aljannah firdaus and grant the family the fortitude to bear the loss. Okoya-Thomas, however, used the opportunity to urge Lagos residents and APC members to come out enmass for the APC membership registration update. The Chairman, Ijede LCDA, Mr Fatiu Salisu, said the entire people of Ijede Community would miss Gbadebo as the pioneer chairman of the council, and her support for development agenda always. Salisu said she was a political pillar in the East Senatorial District and Ijede which used to play active roles in its political landscape. Also, Mrs Folasade Plumpter, daughter of Gbadebo, said her late mother would be remembered for her good deeds and promised to build on her legacies.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .