 Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (2nd left), Minister of State for Health, Dr. Olorunnimbe Mamora (left), Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire and Director General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, during the Osinbajo’s facility tour of NCDC’s National Reference Laboratory in Abuja…yesterday  								      PHOTO: PHILIP OJISUA  Vice President Yemi Osinbajo stated this at the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Reference Laboratory in Gaduwa, Abuja, where he underwent a facility tour, accompanied by the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, Minister of State for Health, Adeleke Olorunnimbe Mamora and Director General of NCDC, Chikwe Ihekweazu. Noting that government has a critical situation on its hands with the increasing number of cases being recorded, Osinbajo, however, added that a lot of progress has been made since February last year. He stated: “We have activated nearly 120 laboratories nationwide, 70 of them public laboratories, and significantly ramped up our testing and case management capacity. “We have expanded the footprint of our sovereign public health response capabilities, especially at the subnational level, and in areas where previously, such capabilities did not exist. “Not so long ago, test samples had to be flown out of the country for examination. This is no longer the case, as we now have the capacity to process samples internally.” The vice president observed that such an achievement should not be taken for granted, “but one that we are determined to consolidate on,” adding: “This very facility is a testament to the strides that we have made during a short period. “While we are not yet where we want to be as a nation, we are most certainly not where we were at the onset of the pandemic.”He applauded Nigeria’s public and private healthcare specialists and workers in the line of duty for ensuring the safety, cure and prevention of majority of Nigerians from the COVID-19 virus, sometimes under extremely challenging circumstances. He continued: “Within this period, you have all worked extremely hard to activate testing in all states of our country, you have increased our knowledge of this disease, grown our capacity to swiftly identify those infected by the plague and render aid to them. “I know that the work you do can often seem thankless and the long hours you put in unnoticed and unappreciated. Often, it happens in the background and in the shadows, away from public attention and it will not often grab the headlines. But it only seems this way; in truth, this is the sort of work that builds nations and saves lives. “When the record of our response to this unprecedented threat to our public health is written, the efforts of our healthcare professionals will occupy a significant place with the thanks of a grateful nation” He also gave special commendation to NCDC, saying: “The excellent work I have witnessed today is one of the best examples of how this pandemic has produced at least one silver lining, a showcasing of the remarkable skills and talents of our public health experts, here at NCDC and across the health sector. “It is fair to say that the staff of the NCDC and all those engaged in Nigeria’s COVID-19 public health response represent public service at its very best in Nigeria and are an example of the type of public sector that we all want. “So, to all staff of the NCDC and Public Health Teams across the states, thank you for the excellent work that you do. I want you all to know that your country is extremely proud of you. Incredible as it may sound, you are indeed making history every single day.” Osinbajo also spoke on the groundbreaking research of several Nigerians towards creating a cure for the COVID-19 virus, noting: “Last week, I was in briefing meetings, listening to the landmark research of a team of professors from LUTH, who are investigating the efficacy of some of the drugs in the therapeutic management of COVID-19 and are researching its prophylactic use. “A few days later, I was listening to Professor Christian Happi and his team, who have produced a groundbreaking COVID-19 rapid test, but more remarkably, are developing a Nigerian anti-COVID-19 vaccine.” He urged Nigerians to continue to comply with COVID-19 non-pharmaceutical measures and advice of scientists and healthcare professionals and take every measure to keep themselves and their loved ones safe. During the tour of the facility in Gaduwa, the Federal Capital Territory, Osinbajo was taken round the laboratories and also interacted with a select group of staff and paid tribute to the memory of the late NCDC staff, Uche Njoku, who died in the course of service. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .