 #EndSARS protest  What is a ‘widespread or Systematic attack’?      
Since the inquiry as to whether a given prohibited act qualifies as a crime against humanity begins with an assessment of the widespread or systematic element, it is critical to understand how Judges of the ICC have interpreted these concepts. The ICC Pre-trial Chamber in Prosecutor v. Jean–Paul Bemba, following the position taken in Prosecutor v. Akayesu, has affirmed that the act must not just be a random act of violence but must be committed as part of a widespread or systematic attack. In the court’s view the concept of ‘widespread’ denotes a massive, frequent, large scale action, carried out collectively with considerable seriousness and directed against a multiplicity of victims, while ‘Systematic’, as a concept connotes a thoroughly organised attack following a regular pattern on the basis of a common policy involving substantial public or private resources. The thrust of this requirement is to exclude a random act that was not committed as part of a broader plan or policy. In almost all the cases decided by the Rwanda Tribunal, the “widespread” requirement was met, mainly on the scale of the events that took place around the country where a massive number of killings, targeting Tutsis, took place within a very short time frame. The ‘systematic’ nature of the attack was evidenced by the unusually large shipments of machetes into the country shortly before the attacks began. In addition, the trial chambers also took account of uncontroverted evidence of the structured manner in which the attacks took place.
  
When viewed against the established position in international law can it be said that the attack on protesters by soldiers was carried out in the context of a widespread or systematic attack, so as to bring the Lekki incident under the jurisdiction of the ICC? It does appear from all known accounts concerning the EndSARS protesters in Lagos and other parts of the country that a coordinated military intervention occurred only at the Lekki Toll Gate, while protests in other locations occurred without any military involvement. Consequently, on the basis of this easily verifiable fact, it is out of the question that the attack on civilian protesters at the Lekki Toll gate on 20th October 2020 was part of a widespread or systematic in terms of the Rome Statute of the ICC.
  
Having concluded on the basis of available evidence that the attack launched by soldiers on peaceful protesters is most unfortunate and cruel, it is incontrovertible that the attack does not qualify as genocide or a crime against humanity for failing to meet the high threshold set for the legal elements required to prove the two categories of international crimes. This is so because the protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate were not a “group” in terms of the genocide convention, and no doubt an example of the random attacks sought to be excluded by the Rome Statute which requires that any of the proscribed acts mentioned in Article 7(1) a-k of the Rome Statute must be widespread or systematic to qualify as a crime against humanity.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .