To Shut Apapa Dock Road For Railway Modernisation Project Lagos State government has closed the Mile12 to Ketu service lane, inward Lagos for repairs for four weeks, commencing yesterday, Saturday January 16, 2021, as part of the ongoing rehabilitation works on Ikorodu Road. In a statement, yesterday, by the Ministry of Transportation, the Commissioner, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde said the upgrading works on the service lane inward Lagos from Chainage 1+900m (Ikosi Junction) – CH.2+479 (LAMATA Interchange project is part of efforts by the Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration to ensure seamless flow of traffic within the metropolis, especially along the ever busy Ikorodu road. He also explained that the closure will affect the existing traffic management plan put in place, adding that motoring public needs to be very patient while driving on the corridor, especially in using the diversion routes to reduce inconveniences. To ease the work and ensure seamless flow of traffic, the Alausa Secretariat, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway bound motorists will be diverted through Oyero Street, Ohundun Street and Ikosi Road, while Lagos bound motorists will use the already completed main carriageway inward Lagos. Road users are also advised to exit from inward Lagos carriageway at LAMATA interchange to connect 3rd Axial Road as an alternative route. The Commissioner, while analysing progress made so far on the project, said pavement works on the main Carriageway inward Lagos had been completed, while inward Ikorodu will be completed in the next few days. The statement assured that adequate traffic management measures have been put in place to ease traffic congestion along the route, stressing that it will only be effective, if motorists cooperate with the traffic management personnel deployed to the corridor. Similarly, Lagos State government will be closing down Apapa Dock Yard Road temporarily from 5:00pm to 5:00 am on Sunday, 17th January and 24thJanuary 2021 for level cross construction, in line with the Nigerian Railway Modernization Project (Lagos-Ibadan). Oladeinde explained that the tracks of the standard and narrow gauge closure will be laid during the temporary closure, adding that this will allow the contractors work without any interruptions to meet deadlines. Motorists heading towards Naval Dock Yard from Ajegunle are advised to go through Marine Bridge to link Ijora Bridge and take a descend to Under Bridge (Ijora 7Up) to connect Forte Oil/Conoil Depot to access the Western Naval Gate, while those coming from Ijora Olopa are to link Ijora Oloye through Under Bridge (7Up). Traffic headed to the Naval Dock Yard from Ijora Badiya will be directed to ascend Total Bridge, make a U-turn under the bridge and reconnect the bridge again to descend Under Bridge (Ijora 7Up) and access the Western Naval Gate, while those coming from Iganmu are advised to link the Naval Dock Yard from Under Bridge, as well. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .