After several years of delay, indications have emerged that the foundation-laying of the Badagry deep seaport will commence this month. The Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, disclosed this when he paid a courtesy visit to the paramount ruler of Badagry Kingdom, Akran of Badagry, De-Wheno Aholu Menu Toyi 1. He said the Badagry deep seaport project in Lagos is a strategic step towards the development of Nigeria as a global maritime hub. Jamoh said the visit was to honour the traditional ruler and his kingdom for allocating land to NIMASA to establish its presence in the community, as Nigeria’s maritime regulatory authority, ahead of the take-off of the project, whose foundation is expected to be laid this month. The NIMASA boss stated: “Nigeria is strategically located at a significant point in the Atlantic Ocean, with about 853 kilometres coastline, which gives us a geographic advantage to become a maritime hub in not only the West and Central African region but also the entire world. And with over 70 per cent of cargo bound for West and Central Africa destined for Nigeria, we also have a huge commercial advantage. “The Badagry Deep Seaport planned to be Africa’s biggest and most advanced seaport when it becomes operational, will help to maximise this extraordinary maritime potential. This is more so given the strategic place of Badagry in the region.” The Director-General assured that he would work with the traditional ruler and the kingdom to see to the implementation of the deep seaport project. Jamoh, who was personally received at the palace by the Akran and his council of chiefs, was presented with the Badagry pilgrimage award, a special recognition accorded dignitaries who visit the town. The Badagry Deep Seaport project is being executed through a public-private partnership (PPP) overseen by the Federal Ministry of Transportation, Federal Ministry of Trade and Investment, Lagos State Government as well as a private consortium of APM Terminals, Orlean Invest, Oando, Terminal Investment Limited (TIL) and Macquarie. The deep seaport is located in the Gberefun area of Badagry, along the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, about 55 kilometers west of the Apapa and Tin Can Island Port complexes. The port is proposed to be about four kilometres of the quay and approximately 620 hectares of dedicated port facilities. There will be about 480 hectares of industrial and logistic park zone.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .