Seven lawmakers elected on the platform of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) into the Ogun State House of Assembly, yesterday, decamped to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The affected lawmakers were Minority Leader, Ganiyu Oyedeji (Ifo II), Musefiu Lamidi (Ado-Odo Ota II), Yusuf Amosun (Ewekoro), Sikiratu Ajibola (Ipokia/Idiroko), Bolanle Ajayi (Egbado South), Adeniran Ademola (Sagamu II) and Modupe Mujota (Abeokuta North). Speaker of the House, Olakunle Oluomo, who announced their defection  during  a plenary session,   yesterday, admonished other minority members in the House to join the train in moving the state forward said he was happy that things are getting better in the state under the Dapo Abiodun-led administration, as all the seven members elected under the APM had decided to move to the mainstream. The party now has 22 APC members with PDP 1 and ADC three. Speaking shortly after announcing their defection, the lawmakers said their decision to join APC had the full support of their supporters after wide consultations. They thanked their leaders and constituents for the opportunity to serve, assuring that they would continue to give quality representations for the benefits of their constituents. They assured that in spite of being former members of the opposition party in the state, the Assembly remained united and their commitment was for the overall benefits of the people of the state, which they acknowledged, was being attended to by the state government. According to them, the needs of their constituents may differ, but every need would be addressed in line with priorities and the lawmakers would continue to give the necessary support to the government for the overall development of the state. Meanwhile, a chieftain of the APC in the state, who doesn’t want his name mentioned, said the move was part of the strategies ahead of the 2023 general election in the state, as political fireworks and scheming have started in earnest. The Publicity Secretary of the state APC Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, described the defection of the seven legislators as a welcome development. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .