 Willie Obiano  The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. C. Don Adinuba, told The Guardian that the governor was a strong character, adding that it is wrong to equate his liberal disposition with weakness or inability to discharge his duties. Adinuba was reacting to the resignation of Dr. Christian Madubuko as Commissioner for Art, Culture and Tourism. Madubuko had in his resignation letter alleged threat to life and sabotage, urging the governor to “quickly wake up and take charge of the government.” He had also relieved the efforts he made while serving the current administration, recalling that since his appointment in 2018, he had served as commissioner in three ministries – Industry, Trade and Commerce; Road, Rail and Water Transportation – and finally Diaspora Affairs, Indigenous Artworks, Culture and Tourism. Madubuko, however, claimed: “All our efforts to help the governor from all angle were unfortunately hijacked and framed in the bad light by forces with inordinate ambition and insatiable greed. I watched my state being destroyed by a tiny cabal of renegades. I am advising the governor to rise up to the challenge of leadership and take charge of his government. “This is because, at the end of it all, the governor alone takes all the glory for things done right and blame for things done wrong. In summary, l have balanced everything and brought all to mind and decided to leave effective 11:59p.m. of  December 31, 2020.” But speaking on the development, Adinuba, who referred to Madubuko as among the best brains in the administration of the state, stated that he did not explain in clear terms what he meant by the (governor) “taking charge of his administration.” The commissioner noted: “Christian is a close friend and one whose services have very well been appreciated by the governor. He did not however explain what he meant by Obiano not being in charge of his government. Obiano is a very strong character for those who know him.  But I can tell you that he is fully in charge of his government. I do not see anything that can suggest that he has derailed or handed his administration to another person. “My interpretation of that statement from Christian is that the governor listens a lot to people who give him advice. Anybody with power or authority whether at the public office or private office, must listen to people. The person will have made himself an autocrat if he abhors advice of people around him while discharging his duties. It will be very wrong to do that.  When a leader listens to people, he will be able to take a position that will benefit the people. It might also go that the decision might affect some people adversely. I give the governor advice. Sometimes, he accepts and sometimes, he rejects but I will not for that reason ask him not to accept advice. So, Obiano is a listening governor and is in charge of his government. He knows the implication of not taking responsibilities.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .