 Dilapidated structure of the hotel  Its strategic location, so close to Lagos, the commercial capital of Nigeria, was one of the hotel’s Unique Selling Point (USP), which endeared it to many, especially those desirous of serene environment, away from the hustle and bustle of Lagos. The Guardian learnt that in the past, the state raked in huge revenue yearly from the hotel, especially during festive seasons. Corporations, individuals and non-governmental organisations competed with one another to book for space in the hotel for such special occasions as the yearly Children’s Day outing; Independence anniversary,  AGM among other first-class programmes. It was also the go-to event centre for seminars, conferences and other organised events outside Abeokuta, the state capital. Fun seekers wanting the cinema experience were not left out in the scheme of things, as they were not only assured of watching the latest movies in town but were also guaranteed the presence of famous theatre practitioners, who were always invited to the hotel at weekends.
  
But all these have gone with the wind. The hotel has not only ceased to function, it has also been completely abandoned. Presently, the desolation around the hotel speaks of the many years of neglect. Its alluring mien has vanished as all activities have since come to a halt.  There are no more fun events or shows. And the many guests that used to throng the hotel have had to look elsewhere.  While a section of the large expanse of land has been turned into a dumpsite, which emits offensive odour from indiscriminately dumped waste, other sections were used for the cultivation of crops. It was also observed that the right flank of the tail end of the premises has been encroached upon. It was obvious that the part was carved out as part of the premises of the Shoprite store, which sits side by side with the abandoned hotel.  He said: “The failure or closure of the hotel was one of the factors that have given rise to many hotels that have sprouted within this area. If you look at this Ilo Awela Road, we have nothing less than seven hotels that have taken advantage of the vacuum created by the absence of the Gateway Hotel. “It was like a mecca of sorts for visitors, from both within and outside the country, as its location is perfect for such business. We only hope that the current administration will revive the hotel. It will not only generate income for the state but will also help to keep at bay criminals who have turned the premises into a hideout.”
  
For four months, The Guardian tried contacting the state government through the Ministry of Culture and Tourism on the current administration’s plan for the moribund hotel.
  
When the Commissioner, Dr. Oluwatoyin Taiwo was contacted on phone in August 2020, he promised to call back whenever he was less busy. Attempts to get him after several weeks of silence were unsuccessful.    
  
The Guardian also tried through the Ministry’s Press Officer, but no information was received, as at the time of filing this report.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .