 Squats. Photo 1stNews  Chronic knee pain can be quite harmful and ruin your entire day. The sad part of suffering knee pain is that many OTC and prescription drugs come with side effects that can eclipse the original complaint. Interestingly, your diet can help with the pain especially when it comes to inflammation. Keep reading for foods to eat every day to reduce your dependence on pain medication according to Nutrition Exp. Ginger
The active ingredient in ginger is called gingerol and it is a strong anti-inflammatory substance. A 2016 study found that ginger and echinacea supplements effectively reduced inflammation and pain after knee surgery. Studies have shown that adding ginger to a medication regimen can help reduce pain for those suffering from arthritis. To use ginger, you either rub premade ginger to the affected knees or incorporate ginger grated into your meals. Apple cider vinegar
Apple cider vinegar has an alkalizing effect, which helps dissolve mineral build-ups and harmful toxins within the knee joint. In addition, it helps restore joint lubricants which helps reduce pain and promote mobility. There are two ways to use apple cider vinegar. You can either mix it with olive oil and massage into the affected knees once a day for a week or you drink apple cider vinegar directly. You can drink two tablespoons daily to dissolve toxins. Closeup young woman sitting on sofa and feeling knee pain and she massage her knee at home. Healthcare and medical concept. Red pepper
Red peppers are rich in vitamin C which is especially good for knee pain. Vitamin c supports the production of collagen, which provides structure to joints and connects muscle to bone. Rather than a direct pain reliever, eating foods high in vitamin C actually improves the condition of your knees. Cayenne pepper may be a natural painkiller for achy joints and muscles. Capsaicin is the active ingredient in many over-the-counter treatments for arthritis and muscle pain. Carrots
An ancient Chinese remedy to relieve knee pain is to eat carrots because the vegetable is packed with beta-carotene and vitamin A, which are both powerful anti-inflammatory compounds. It is best eaten cooked or raw and should be eaten twice daily to help with knee pain. Beta carotene is an antioxidant that helps to eliminate free radicals from the body, preventing joint damage. Beta carotene gives foods their distinctive orange color, Avocado
Avocados are rich in oleic acid, which studies show can lower particular biomarkers of inflammation. Also, avocado is one of the only foods that can also minimize the ability of other foods to generate inflammation, which makes it very helpful to add to almost any meal. Furthermore, avocados are high in anti-inflammatory monounsaturated fat. They are also a good source of vitamin E, which has anti-inflammatory effects. Turmeric
Turmeric is a perennial plant native to southern Asia. It’s widely grown both for domestic and medicinal purposes. If you are a fan of curry, then this is good news for you. Curry contains turmeric which has a lot of curcumin. The use of curcumin for the treatment of anti-inflammation is an old one as consumption of curcumin can reduce the risk of developing painful joint conditions. Walnuts
Nuts are nutritious, but walnuts, pistachios, and almonds contain really high amounts of calcium, magnesium, vitamin E, protein, and alpha-linolenic that boost the immune system. Specifically, walnuts are high in omega-3 fatty acids that help reduce osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis pain. It is considered the king of nuts for a reason, it possesses many health benefits. Walnuts is high in omega-3 fatty acids and antioxidants, which makes them ideal for soothing knee pain. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.