Hope Uzodimma. Photo; TWITTER/HOPEUZODINMA1 The Chairman, Anambra State Chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Ndubuisi Nwobu, has described as daydreaming the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) boast that it would capture the state in the November 6, gubernatorial poll. Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma, who is also the leader of APC in Southeast, had declared that his party would win the governorship election as a starting point for its quest to clinch the APC presidential ticket in 2023. But, Nwobu told The Guardian that his party decided not to join issues with Uzodimma after the Southeast APC zonal stakeholders’ meeting, because the party’s zonal leader’s utterances did not reflect the true political realities in Anambra State. He recalled Uzodimma’s claim that he would employ “seen and unseen” forces to capture Anambra, saying that come November 6, he would know that Anambra is not Imo State. “I think he must have been alluding to the fact that the Supreme Court awarded him the governorship of Imo State. Anybody in his position can boast to high heavens. He was being guided by his emergence as governor by a Supreme Court’s pronouncement. But, he should know that Anambra is not Imo State. “Anambra governorship would be settled on the field. There would not be need for a second ballot. After the voters have made their choice, people like Hope Uzodimma would find out that there is no room for the court to entertain any drama,” Nwobu declared. The PDP chieftain wondered how Uzodimma believes that APC with its “bad leadership credentials, destruction of the economy and spiraling insecurity,” could come to Anambra State and win election, where the people have already made up their minds on how to vote. On the issue of pending litigations over the leadership of PDP in the state, Nwobu disclosed that having emerged from properly organised congress, there was no issue as to who was the party chairman in Anambra State. He disclosed that one of the two cases at the appellate court was instituted by protégés of Chris Ubah, adding both cases were among frivolous litigations the zonal working committee urged the litigants to withdraw. Nwobu explained that it was out of the erroneous belief by some misguided politicians that the judiciary was corrupt that all manner of documents could be taken to court in an attempt to hoodwink judges. Speaking on the large number of billionaire governorship aspirants in the party, Nwobu assured that unlike in recent past, Anambra PDP would not have parallel governorship primary. “There are 13 governorship aspirants and counting. There won’t be a parallel governorship primary in PDP. We are focused and determined to see that we bounce back in the state,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .