President Muhammadu Buhari (middle) with Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha (left); Vice President Yemi<br />Osinbajo; Senate President Ahmad Lawan and Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma, during the signing of memorandum of understanding (MoU) on the second peer review of Nigeria at the State House, Abuja…yesterday. President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, restated Nigeria’s commitment to the enthronement of democracy and good governance in Africa. Speaking in Abuja at the virtual support mission and signing of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the Committee of Heads of State and Government participating in the African Peer Review Mechanism (APR Forum) and Nigeria on the ongoing second peer review process, Buhari noted: “As you are aware, the government of Nigeria has consistently supported the strengthening of democracy and good governance throughout the African continent, including under the umbrella of the African Peer Review Mechanism. We remain fully committed to promoting the good governance practice enshrined in the ideals and vision of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), which gave birth to this review mechanism.” He added: “Nigeria will continue to support Africa’s renewal and rebirth evident in the collective commitment to this review in order to consolidate the continent’s path to healthy democracy and sustainable growth.” The President lauded the progress made so far in the “Africa Peer Review Mechanism as a self-monitoring tool to address governance deficit in Africa, as we conform to our shared values in the areas of democracy and political governance, economic governance, corporate governance and socio-economic development.” The Nigerian leader recalled that the most populous black nation did its first peer review in 2008 and has covered appreciable ground in the implementation of the National Programme of Action ever since. He expressed the readiness of his administration to submit to the exercise. Chairperson of the APRM National Governing Council, Senator Abba Ali, said the benefits of the second review include invigoration and institutionalisation of the APRM process in Nigeria and entrenchment of good governance, as well as appraisal of the extent of implementation of the national programme of action in the first review and its continued relevance to sustain civil rule.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .