Rivers State government has announced that all public and private schools in the state will resume on Monday, January 4, for normal academic activities. A statement by the Permanent Secretary, State Ministry of Education, Chidi Adiele, urged schools to maintain COVID-19 protocols, including the wearing of facemasks, use of hand sanitisers and staggered classes/morning and afternoon sessions to avoid overcrowding. The statement reads, “ The Rivers State Ministry of Education wishes to announce that, with the approval of Governor Nyesom Wike, the school calendar published in August, 2020 stands. “Accordingly, both public and private schools in the state are hereby reminded that schools will resume on January 4, 2021 for normal academic activities.” Meanwhile, the Ebonyi State government, yesterday, announced the shifting of resumption of both private and public schools from January 4 to January 18. The government also announced that both the state university and college of education will resume tomorrow, but both the students and staff must observe all the COVID-19 protocols put in place by government. The state Commissioner for Education, Dr. Onyebuchi Chima, made this known in special public service announcement made available to newsmen in Abakaliki. “I have been directed by the Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, to inform all public, private and mission nursery, primary, secondary schools, Ebonyi State colleges, university and the general public that due to the need to take precautions against the impending second wave of COVID-19 and in compliance to the directives of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. “That all public, private and mission nursery, primary and secondary schools in Ebonyi State shall resume on Monday January 18, 2021 instead of January 4 as earlier scheduled. “That in order to ensure the return of students to full academic activities, especially as Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) had called off its nine months industrial strike on the December 24, 2020. “All Ebonyi State colleges and university shall resume on Monday, January 4 2021 on condition of strict observation of NCDC Protocols on COVID-19 by all staff and students,” the statement read. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .