Chairmen the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Southwest zone have advised former Governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, who heads the party’s Reconciliation Committee in the region to quit. They insisted that it was important for Oyinlola to leave and pave way for the setting up of a proper committee that would resolve the crisis in the zone. In a statement issued yesterday, Chairman of the Southwest PDP leaders, Dr. Sikirulai Ogundele described the Oyinlola’s committee as being factional, adding that a legitimate executive of the Zonal Caretaker Committee in the zone had not been inaugurated. By virtue of the fact that the Oyinlola’s Committee was not set up by the PDP Zonal Caretaker Committee, majority of PDP members in the Southwest could not trust him. Ogundele, who is also factional chairman of the PDP in Ogun State, said it would not augur well for Oyinlola’s image to be running errands for Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde. He disclosed that the decision of the PDP chairmen to attend the meeting at the Ibadan residence of former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose with Oyinlola and Dr. Saka Balogun, was due to their respect for Oyinlola, and not an acceptance of his (Oyinlola’s) committee. “Oyinlola needs to respect his name and stop running around in the name of a reconciliation that is tailored by the person who set it up to achieve a predetermined agenda. “More so that Governor Makinde is the one that appointed Balogun as Secretary of the committee. It is, therefore, our advice that Oyinlola and Balogun should quit,” he added. Ogundele, however, urged the Femi Babalola-led Reconciliation Committee set up by the PDP National Working Committee (NWC), to work with the National Reconciliation Committee headed by former President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki. When contacted, National Publicity Secretary of PDP, Kola Olagbondiyan, declined comments on the factions of the committee saying: “The Saraki committee would settle the differences in the party.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .