Delta State governor Ifeanyi Okowa may have given the management of Warri Wolves FC an ultimatum to put the team back to winning ways or get the marching order following their 1-2 home defeat to Nasarawa United in their NPFL match at Ozoro on Sunday. Since the beginning of the new season, Warri Wolves have been unimpressive despite the huge amount of money invested on the club by the Okowa-led government. Warri Wolves got a 3-0 home win against Katsina United a week ago to give the fans false impression that all was well. The 1-2 home defeat to Nasarawa United on Sunday at Ozoro is said to be generating bad blood in the state. Warri Wolves have won only two matches this season. A source told The Guardian yesterday that before the club’s home defeat to Nasarawa on Sunday, sports-loving Governor Okowa had discussed issues concerning Warri Wolves during an Executive Council meeting in Asaba on Friday. The source hinted that Governor Okowa was looking for a way to better the welfare package for players and officials of Warri Wolves and Delta Queens, only for the male team to fall at home to Nasarawa United two days later. “As we speak, the governor is very angry with Warri Wolves, particularly after the 1-2 home defeat to Nasarawa United,” the source stated. It was learned yesterday that the chairman of Warri Wolves FC, Moses Etu, may have played into the bad books of the Nigeria Referees Association (NRA) over his alleged attack on the chairman of Nasarawa United Isaac Danladi, after the home defeat at Ozoro on Sunday. “I don’t know why Moses Etu will hold the chairman of Nasarawa United Isaac Danladi for his team’s defeat. Etu accused Danladi of paying the referees to work against Warri Wolves. I found that accusation very funny because players of Warri Wolves did not play well to deserve the victory. The players couldn’t raise their legs. Etu is attacking everybody, and he has played into the bad books of NRA now. I foresee more trouble for the team in coming days,” the source stated. Efforts to speak with Moses Etu yesterday were unsuccessful, but the chairman of Delta Football Association (DFA), Kenneth Nwaomucha, told The Guardian that players of Warri Wolves have been told to improve on their performances. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .