The Nigerian Police Force (NPF) has assured Nigerians of strict enforcement of the regulations on COVID-19 signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, which makes wearing of facemasks in public compulsory in the country and non-compliance an offence in the effort to curb the spread of the virus. Speaking in an interview with The Guardian, yesterday, in Abuja, Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, a Commissioner of Police (CP), explained that the Force was working assiduously to ensure adequate compliance to the order. He said: “The Nigerian Police is charged with the responsibility of enforcing all laws and regulations that are legitimate in this country and one of our core responsibilities is to enforce such orders. We will in that same spirit and manner enforce this current order. “On our part, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has already made adequate provisions for facemasks for Police personnel, so we also expect Police officers to lead by example by wearing their masks. “We are one of those institutions that have consistently encouraged the wearing of the facemask. For us, it is something we believe in and we will enforce it.” Mba also appealed to Nigerians to voluntarily comply with the order designed to ensure adequate prevention and the spread of the virus, adding: “Our appeal basically is for Nigerians to voluntarily comply with that order. “Our desire would be that Nigerians would comply with the order, that they voluntarily wear facemask and observe all other protocols designed to ensure the management and prevention of the spread of COVID-19. “However, where for any reason, citizens feel or deliberately ignore the order, we would have no choice than to ensure that they comply with the order.” He stated that the Police was also working assiduously with other stakeholders to ensure that Nigerians are properly sensitised on the need for full compliance. “We will work other agencies, the media, National Orientation Agency (NOA) and other law enforcement agencies to continue to encourage the dissemination of information for the enlightenment and education of citizens to ensure compliance with the executive order. “We are also urging political leaders to talk to their constituents and faith-based organisations, civil societies and institutions of learning to talk on the ideals. “You will recall that at the beginning of COVID-19, the Nigerian Police remained the only institution busy working with local and international organisations to develop a code of conduct for its personnel in the enforcement of COVID-19 prevention protocols.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .