The Jos International annual Polo Tournament, which began on Saturday, December 26, 2020 came to a climax last weekend, January 2, 2021, with Malcomines team emerging victorious. The team, led by Alhaji Murtala Laushi, defeated their rival, team Keffi Ponies, led by Ahmad A Wadada to clinch the Governor’s Cup. Lauchi’s team won the Polo International tournament last year. The NASCO Group Nigeria has been sponsoring the tournament since 1963, when it came on board providing the quality of life for the citizens of Plateau State. The Group Corporate Communications and Compliance Advisor of NASCO, Haroun Harry Audu, says the 2020 Jos International Annual Polo Tournament featured players and teams, including polo enthusiasts from within and outside the country. Audu added: “It is worth noting that the game of Polo has for several decades now maintained its pre-eminent position as the leading catalyst for sports, recreation, peace and tourism in Plateau State and Nigeria at large.” Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong was so elated on Saturday night January 2, 2021, when the tournament came to the climax. The Governor, who is the Grand Patron of the Jos Polo Club, was at the General Hassan Usman Katsina Polo Field in Jos, the Plateau State Capital, where players from over 18 teams featured in the tournament. Ten teams played for Governor’s Cup, NASCO’s Cup and IMANI’s Cup. Declaring the tournament open, the President, Jos Polo Club, Alhaji Murtala Laushi, appreciated Governor Simon Bako Lalong, Royal Fathers and sponsors. He said the Jos Polo International Annual Polo Tournament has a long tradition of promoting peace and unity among different personalities. On his part, the Captain of Jos Polo club, Yusuf Umar Dauda, said: “This year’s tournament was exceptionally planned because it attracted more interests compared to previous ones. I am happy to see people trooping in to watch and entertain themselves, and this has demonstrated that peace has returned to the Plateau after a series of crises that engulfed the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .