Governor Ganduje casting his vote in Kano…yesterday The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has won all 44 Chairmanship and 484 councillorship seats and returned elected in Kano Local Government election. The winners were declared despite Kano Civil Society Situation Room, Kano State Independent Electoral Commission, (KANSIEC) accredited observers alleged cases of underage thumbprinting of ballots at two polling units as well as low turn out of voters during the election. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, KANSIEC Chairman, Professor Garba Ibrahim Sheka declared candidates of APC at the 44 LGA’s return elected with 2,350,577 votes. Prior to the declaration of the election’s results, Governor Abdullah Umar Ganduje had predicted maximum victory for APC in the entire councils. Ganduje who made the obvious prediction shortly after casting ballot on Saturday at his 001 Ganduje primary polling unit, Ganduje village, Dawakin-Tofa local government area, however clarified the expectant victory would be justified through the ballot and not by any form of rigging or intimidation. Professor Sheka who claimed that entire conduct of the election was relatively peaceful and devoid of crisis, pointed out pocket of skirmishes at some polling units which he said was sooner brought under control. Although, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had officially announced their withdrawal from the contest, Professor Sheka insisted the poll was keenly contested with 12 political parties including PDP taking part. In an Interim report issued by the situation room lead convener, Ibrahim Waiya, the civil society group noted that though the conduct of the elections was relatively peaceful but not devoid of irregularities. According to the release, adherence to COVID-19 protocols and preventive measures were equally disregarded at many places visited during the election. ” We observed shortage of ballot papers in some polling units but that was quickly addressed by KANSIEC. COVID-19 social distancing and other prevention protocols were not adhered to in most of the polling units. There were reports of delay in the distribution of materials in some polling units, resulting in late commencement of the elections. “However, most of these issues were immediately addressed through the situation room’s intervention. It was observed that there was low turnout of voters in most of the polling units, especially among women and persons with disability. “There were reports of underage presence in two polling units, but were’quickly addressed through the intervention of the situation room. In most of the polling units, elections were concluded and vote counting; started by 3pm. “We acknowledged the important role played by Police, together with other security agencies, in securing polling units and curtailing few disturbances especially in part of Sabon Gari South ward of Fagge LGA”. Reacting to the allegations, Professor Sheka acknowledged potential of inadequacy in every system despite efforts to put in place to ensure smooth conduct. Specifically noting on the alleged underage voting, the KANSIEC boss insisted the video clip that went viral was orchestrated by political enemies of the state. He claimed the video clip has failed all integrity test after subjected to all technical procedure. Professor Sheka who disclosed that KANSIEC might not be hundred percent perfect however rated the performance of the commission above average.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .