Vibez | David Otalekor Emerging singer and songwriter David Otalekor, better known by his stage name, Vibez is stepping into the Nigerian music scene determined to make an impact. The fast-rising artiste, who was born and raised in the Southern part of Nigeria, is currently signed to Savage Music Worldwide. Vibez started gaining awareness after the release of his debut single “Banging”. Vibez expresses his music through the Afrobeats and the Afro-Fusion genre. Last year, he released an EP “Jungle”, which explored the everyday struggles of the average man and his journey to greatness In this chat with Guardian Life, Vibez speaks about his life and music. What inspires you to make music?
A lot of things can inspire creating music, but for me, I’d say life and my everyday experiences. In an industry saturated with new artists, what do you plan on doing differently?
Everything. I plan on doing everything differently because nothing beats originality, and people are tired of seeing the same thing being recycled. From my style to my sound and the lifestyle, I believe in sending a strong message, so when I step in, you know it’s all Vibez. As far as the Nigerian music industry is concerned, where do you believe you currently fit in and what heights do you aspire to reach?
Over the last few years, I’ve really gone mainstream, and that’s like a milestone for me, knowing the journey, it’s life, we can’t stop dreaming, so I know Vibez is definitely going to be a global sensation someday. Vibez Who would you love to collaborate with before the year runs out?
Number one on that list would be Wizkid, then maybe a Burna Boy collaboration won’t be bad, a few new bad guys currently dominating the industry, proud of them and would love to work with them Fireboy, Bella Shmurda, Badboytimz is a Vibe also. If you could change anything about the Nigeria music industry, what would it be?
Hmmmm, a lot, but, I think restructuring would be better. What should your fans be expecting from you this year?
A whole lot. I have been working on a new project, even before the first COVID Lockdown, and believe me, it’s straight fire. I can’t wait to start dropping some fire collaborations that are already in the works. Tell us one interesting fact about yourself, that is not related to your work
Hahah. Hmm, I just love to have fun. Whatever it is I do, I always make sure it’s Fun.