Suspected fake sergeant The Lagos State Police Command has beamed its searchlight on armed robbers who terrorise POS (Point of Sale) operators in the state as its operatives attached to Ipaja Division at the weekend arrested one Korede Anifowose, 24, for attacking an operator. He was nabbed at Omisakin Street, Agbelekale, Abule Egba, after robbing one Sola Musa, a POS operator, at Fatolu Bus Stop, Ipaja. The suspect, Korede, and his accomplice, now at large, attacked the POS operator while he raised the alarm and they were chased by the Anti-Crime Police operatives before Korede was arrested. According to Lagos State Police spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, “One locally made pistol and some expended cartridges were recovered from him. “The command has deemed it necessary to beam its searchlight on attackers of POS operators based on complaints the command has received on the antics of the criminals who terrorise POS operators. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, has mandated Divisional Police Officers to beef up security around those dealing with liquid cash in their businesses as the command cannot afford to leave them or anyone in the state unprotected.” In another development, the police operatives attached to Area E Command, FESTAC, on January 19, 2021, around 12.12a.m., arrested one David Omoruyi, 37, in possession of a fake police identity card and 30kg of weeds suspected to be cannabis. “The suspect, in company of his fleeing colleagues, were seen with some bags of cannabis on their heads at Alaba Rago Market, Ojo, Lagos, when the policemen accosted them and eventually arrested David while others fled. “Omoruyi claimed he is a serving sergeant attached to Mopol 49, Epe, Lagos State. But after due interrogation and investigation, he confessed to be a fake policeman. He confessed that he used to flash the fake ID card to gain access and for easy passage of their loots or drugs whenever they were in transit. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Odumosu, has directed that the suspects be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba, for discreet investigation, while their fleeing members be searched for and brought to book with immediate effect. “CP Odumosu also admonished the general public to avail useful information to the police to discharge their duties diligently as expected,” Adejobi said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .