Chrissy Teigen And John Legend Dance In Street To Celebrate Biden Joe Biden will be sworn in as the 46th president of the United States at the inauguration ceremony in Washington, DC on Wednesday. Also, Donald Trump has left the White House alongside his family at around 12.30 pm UK time. To celebrate this, a galaxy of stars took to the streets to ring in the inauguration including Katy Perry, Jennifer Lopez, and Lady Gaga. However, it was Chrissy and John who took centre stage as they danced in the street together. Love conquers all as the romantic Hollywood power couple slow-danced for everyone to see. Chrissy especially has been a vocal critic of Trump’s controversial presidency, getting embroiled in various spats with him, including in 2019 when he tweeted her husband John to berate his “filthy-mouthed wife”. Chrissy, in response, branded him a “pussy ass bitch” in a viral tweet that soon sparked an entire hashtag of hilarity. The lovebirds, who took time off parenting duties to Miles and Luna, rubbed shoulders with the National Guard officers patrolling the streets ahead of the ceremony. Model Chrissy didn’t miss the photo opportunity as she posed among the group while everyone wore their face masks amid the coronavirus pandemic as reported by The Mirror. As many as 25,000 troops are expected to swoop to the scene in Washington DC for the inauguration. Chrissy wrote: “We got lost on the way to soundcheck but stumbled across these literal f***ing heroes!!” Security are ready up for the ceremony after pro-Trump rioters stormed the US Capitol in early January. Elsewhere, Jennifer Lopez also got a photograph posing with the troops on the streets in DC. New mum and songstress Katy Perry also took to the streets to celebrate ahead of her performance at the upcoming ceremony. It’s going to be quite the showbiz extravaganza with a catalogue of stars taking to the stage. Katy will perform for a crowd among celebs including John Legend, Lady Gaga, Demi Lovato, the Foo Fighters, Bruce Springsteen, and Justin Timberlake. Hollywood actor Tom Hanks will host the broadcast Celebrating America.