 Imo State University (IMSU). PHOTO: NAIJADAZZZ  The management of Imo State University (IMSU), Owerri, yesterday stopped students from entering the school premises for failure to use facemasks, while others were scolded for not wearing them properly within the premises. It said it would not condone acts capable of jeopardising efforts aimed at safeguarding the school community from the dreaded coronavirus. When The Guardian visited the university, it was discovered that majority of the students were reluctant to comply with the COVID-19 precautionary measures. Many of them were also seen clustering around within the university environs for one purpose or the other without observing the COVID-19 protocols. The Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the school, Ralph Njokuobi, who spoke with The Guardian, said the school had fumigated the entire lecture rooms, libraries, hostels and other places as measures to combat the spread of the virus in the school. The Guardian, yesterday, discovered that some of the classrooms were under lock and key, and no lecture was held in the entire school. The lecturers had boycotted classes in compliance with the strike embarked upon the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in the state over alleged non-payment of salaries and pensions. MEANWHILE, students of the institution have threatened mayhem if the landlords of the off-campus hostels fail to reduce the rents on their accommodation, which is mainly off-campus around Orji, Uratta and Okigwe Road. But the Dean of Students’ Affairs, Prof. Martins Uchenna, has appealed to them to sheathe their swords and wait for the meeting between the authorities of the institution, the students and the landlords. Uchenna also directed that payments be suspended until the matter was resolved. The state government had directed tertiary, primary and post-primary schools to reopen on January 25 for academic activities. It had also directed students to return to their hostels on January 24, while observing the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) safety protocols. The 2019/2020 IMSU Students Union Government (SUG) executives, led by Collins Oguike; the Director of Information, Victor Duru; the legislative members led by Mayor Chikwe; alliance presidents, faculty executives and others have met with the dean on the matter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .