 Seyi Makinde  Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, yesterday, declared that his administration would not use criminality to address criminality and security challenges in the state, stressing that nobody can predict the end of the crisis. The governor, who spoke at a meeting between the South-West governors and the leadership of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) in Akure, the Ondo State capital, said that the current administration in the state would continue to encourage the people to work together to flush out kidnappers, armed robbers and bandits from the region. MINISTER of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, has advised Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, to be more proactive in handling security situation in the state. Dare, an indigene of the state, said: “Like all the people of Oyo State, I expected Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State to act prudently but with reasonable dispatch to quell the security situation before it got out of hand. We all waited for proactive steps and responses from the state authority, but certainly in vain. “Yet, Oyo State with its population is strategically located in the South-West political and economic equation. It should not be allowed to fall into a deadly security malaise for trouble in Oyo State will not be limited to the state. It will spread given our strategic importance and position. “Governor Makinde seems to be paralysed by fear regarding this important security situation. This is the first serious test of his leadership of the state. Instead of tackling it, he has retreated. His policy has not been proactive enough to resolve the issues so that security of lives will be guaranteed and our people spared the mourning over dead ones. Instead, his policy has been to act as if nothing was happening in forlorn hope that all would simply go away as if it were a bad dream.” On the reaction his statement would generate, he said: “I know I will get my share of abuse and criticism for making this statement. I will take it because when it comes to security of our people, I stand firm. There is no room for partisanship on this essential point. Oyo citizens from Ibadan to Ibarapa, Ogbomoso, Oke-Ogun and Oyo town deserve better security and better responses to the issue of protecting them. I want the governor to do better as the price of continued failure is that of loss of additional lives and property, as well as increasing tensions between people who once treated each other as neighbours and brothers.” IN another development, a socio-development group, Oyo State Development Advocacy Group (OSDAG), has implored all sons and daughters of the Yoruba Nation, home and abroad, to the campaign of calumny against Governor Seyi Makinde over the recent happenings in the state. The group, in a statement signed by its Spokesman, Michael Ogunsina, said that it was wrong to heap blame on Makinde and also erroneous for anyone to think that the governor was taking side with Fulani invaders against his own people who voted him to power. It stressed that the disturbing trend of insecurity in Oyo State, as well as other parts of Yorubaland, should be solely blamed on the Federal Government led by President Muhammadu Buhari. The OSDAG, which further urged all Yoruba sons and daughters at home and abroad to rally behind Makinde in his quest to restore peace and stability to the state, said that Oyo people should not be swayed by the move of the opposition to blackmail the governor with issue of insecurity. It also urged all the six South-West governors to set aside their political leaning and call for a meeting of all Yoruba stakeholders to set a solid agenda for the region. Makinde, yesterday, declared that his administration would not use criminality to address criminality and security challenges in the state, stressing that nobody can predict the end of the crisis. The governor, who spoke at a meeting between the South-West governors and the leadership of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) in Akure, the Ondo State capital, said that the current administration in the state would continue to encourage the people to work together to flush out kidnappers, armed robbers and bandits from the region. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .