 Willie Obiano  In a live broadcast yesterday, the governor said the learning institutions would not re-open on January 18 as earlier scheduled. The two weeks, he noted, are to prepare principals and teachers for the pupils’ return. Stating that the threat of the disease was not only real but also deadly, Obiano added that between December 7, 2020 and January 11, 2021, the state recorded 110 new cases. He stated: “This is not good at all. We must do everything within our powers to halt the spread. That is why we have revved up our testing capacity and brought the total number of tests to 13, 412. “Once again, it has become necessary to address you on the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic that is currently sweeping across the world. “It is more deadly because after struggling with the pandemic for nine months, we have dropped our level of vigilance and returned to our normal lives. “On the contrary, it has come back with renewed viciousness. And it is claiming many lives because our people are not complying with the COVID-19 protocols.” Obiano said government had taken some hard decisions to check spread of the virus. The telecast said: “Schools in Anambra shall not re-open on January 18, 2021 as earlier scheduled. Rather, schools will re-open after two weeks from today to enable the principals and teachers prepare for the return of our children.  We commend school proprietors and administrators in the state for their careful handling of the first wave of the pandemic. “Schools are advised to revive the COVID-19 structures and practices that helped protect our children during the first wave. “All government offices must observe the standard COVID-19 protocols – washing of hands at the entrance, wearing of face masks, regular use of hand sanitisers – and strict observance of social distancing. Nobody will be allowed into any government premises without properly wearing a face mask. “No one should step outside his/her home without wearing a facemask.“The ban on nightclubs is still firmly in place. Hotels are directed to ensure strict compliance with COVID-19 protocols. “There should not be more than 50 people in any public gathering.” “The COVID-19 Action Teams in all our 61 markets must ensure full compliance with the protocols.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .