A section of completed Obajana-Kabba Road in Kogi State. Dangote Group, a Nigerian multinational industrial conglomerate has completed the 43-kilometre-concrete road in Obajana-Kabba, Kogi State. The road constructed by Dangote Industries Limited (DIL), as its Corporate Social Responsibility Project is the longest rigid payment road in Nigeria. It is described by engineers as first of its kind and most strategic highway that is aiding travelers between the North and the South. A statement from the Corporate Communications Department of the Dangote Group said: “Concrete road last longer than asphalt roads and do not have potholes. It does not require frequent maintenance as asphalt roads. It saves fuel for motorists and protects tyres from wear and tears.” The statement said it is part of the Group’s determination to support government and Nigerians in order to grow the economy and facilitate ease of doing business. Also, the Project Director, Olatunbosun Kalejaiye , who expressed joy that the project is being delivered for use by Nigerians, said the rigid pavement has been completed, while the company was dressing the shoulders. Elated Kalejaiye expressed joy that the project is being delivered for use by Nigerians. He said while the rigid pavement has been completed, the company was dressing the shoulders. Also, the site engineer, Samuel Obosi assured that the dual carriage way will be durable and less susceptible to potholes and repairs like asphalt road, adding that it would crash the rate of road accidents in the country. Speaking on the project, the Bajana of Obajana land, King Idowu Senibi, a community leader in Apa Bunu Kingdom and spokesperson for the community Sam Omosayi commended the Dangote Group for the project, saying the road has attracted a lot of businesses along the road. Describing the project as gigantic and the first of its kind anywhere in Nigeria, the monarchs promised to protect Dangote’s huge investments in their area and the road, saying they are happy that it was happening in their life time and in their kingdoms. “This is a great opportunity for us and many generations to come. Our society will be opened as you can see vehicles and commercial activities have started coming up. May God Almighty bless Dangote and all his staff,” they said. A driver, Alhaji Lamidi Sikiru, said the road is now one of the busiest roads linking the two regions in the country.
“Thank God it is a concrete road. It can withstand any heavy duty vehicle,” Alhaji Lamidi Sikiru, a driver expressed optimism.
Also, a member of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, John Moses said his business is booming compared to when the road was in deplorable state. Speaking in the same vein, the traditional head of Akpata Land, Frederick Durojaiye Balogun said his people were very proud of Alhaji Aliko Dangote, adding that the Dangote Cement, Obajana plant, which is the single largest cement plant in the world, has brought honour and respect to their Kingdoms. Also, the King of Okebunku Land in Kabba Bunu Local Government, Timothy Omonile charged other philanthropists to emulate Dangote, saying it is the only way Nigeria can develop its economy and infrastructure. MEANWHILE, President of the Dangote Group Aliko Dangote had expressed concern about the huge sum of money used in road repairs. He said plans are on to revolutionise Nigerian roads with concrete, stressing that resources used in road repairs and maintenance would be channeled to other more important needs of the nation. “We are going to be building concrete roads in the country so that anytime we build a road, we do not have to go back to repair after the third raining season, but move on and use the resources to address other pressing needs of Nigeria,” Dangote had said. It would be recalled that as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CRS), the Dangote Group had earlier commissioned the 26 km Itori-Ibese Concrete Road. At the commissioning, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, had noted that the stride by the Dangote Group demonstrated the unwavering commitments of an indigenous investor towards the industrialization of Nigeria.
He said the construction of the road has helped cut down the rate of criminality in the state, while describing the Group President of Dangote Group Aliko Dangote as God sent. Rachel Olatunji, a businesswoman said she makes more money now and that business is booming because of the road.
Another businesswoman, Veronica Samuel prayed fervently for the Dangote Group, adding that the new road has changed her life, and enabled her to sponsor her children to school.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .