 Holmes  “Growing up, I saw a lot – the good, the bad and the ugly. The message we are trying to push now is hope for a better today and a better tomorrow,” the 28-year-old Prosper Umughare said. With a growing discography of songs and an Extended Playlist (EP) in the works, barely 11 months after kick-starting his music career, Holmes continues to chart his way to the top with his infectious feel-good vocals and vibrant personality. “I’ve always been a singer; I would call my music Afro-pop. However, I also do Afro-fusion. My latest single, Finally, featuring DJ Neptune, is an Amapiano (sounds rooted in South African House music) vibe. For me, I always hear the instrumental first. Then, If I feel it, I vibe to it. Sometimes, I take it back to my workshop and write, to bring out the best in myself. It all depends on how I am feeling,” he said. Holmes takes the discussion home to his creative process, revealing his bohemian and intentional approach, an unusual method for fresh artistes in the industry. For the singer, working with others has always been based on reliability. “My choice of producers has to be, firstly, a good connection. I like working with producers that are my friends. Definitely, I work with popular producers; I have worked with the likes of Kel-p and Mystro. The most important thing is the relationship. If I feel like I can connect with you properly, I can do music with you. I wrote all the songs I have released, but I am also open to songwriters. As long as you share my kind of vibe, why not,” he noted. From his latest single, Finally – a party-starter record expressing his romantic and sensual affection towards a crush — to Sade, a similarly-themed Afro-pop melody, to Love featuring Davido, and all his other songs, Holmes continues to express his innate positive, happy and lover-boy personality, without filters. “I still have songs on my forthcoming EP that talk about life, what people are going through and all. I like making music about the ladies, though. But I still balance it,” he quipped. The Engineer-cum-singer reminisces on his earliest sojourn into music. “It was always my first love. I have always wanted to do music, years ago. I was part of the drama group, in church; I sang in Church. My mother was a Deaconess. The whole Addictive Music label thing was something I had wanted to do a long time ago, but 2019 was the time I felt that I had the right support from my family and it was time to take it to the business level. My first single was titled ‘Break Out’ and it was released in January.” Despite the setbacks of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Delta State native found a way to persevere through the isolation and create more music, nurturing the very vision that guided him into the industry. For the Afro-fusion singer, his key musical influences include 2baba, Davido, Wizkid, Usher, Tiwa Savage and a lot of others. He expresses his optimism in the Nigerian music industry and projects a stellar growth for his brand. “My vision is for me to be great. I want to attain recognition, locally and globally. That is why I wake up in the morning and get into the studio to record. We live in a generation now where nothing is easy. After setting the goal, you need to put in the hard work.” Holmes is signed to his own Label, Addictive Music, and he recently inked a two-year management deal with D’Luxe Management. With his debut EP expected for release, in 2021, he believes that his music is set to propel him to the pinnacle of fame, across continental sound-spaces. 