 Okafor displays his play button  The programme was also aimed at educating and inspiring African creators through knowledge building sessions from YouTube experts, motivating them with success stories of the creative industry. According to YouTube Content Partnership Manager, Sub-Saharan Africa, Addy Awofisayo, and Communications and Public Affairs Manager for Google West Africa, Taiwo Kola-Ogunlade, the goal is to provide resources to help creators grow their channels. Highlights of the one-week programme include expert-led masterclasses covering topics such as assessing channel performance and engaging a community and understanding YouTube’s monetisation policies. Those celebrated with Play Button awards are Dodos Uvieghara, Eric Okafor, and Kay Ngonyama whose channels have crossed the 100,000 subscribers milestone. Managing Director (MD), Emerging Markets, YouTube EMEA, Alex Okosi, said, “this region-wide virtual initiative demonstrates YouTube’s commitment to creators in the region. “Over the years, we have built and nurtured strong relationships with Africa’s storytellers and provided them with a platform to share their stories with the world. Top African creators and channels like Mark Angel Comedy, DJ Arch Jnr, Churchill Show, and many others grew from a handful of followers to having millions of fans globally.” Speaking with The Guardian, Okafor said, “the greatest validation that you could get as a YouTuber, is that which comes from YouTube itself. 100,000 subscribers are such a huge milestone in every YouTuber’s career and it’s something to aspire towards. I think that every creator who is working hard and creating value consistently deserves this.” Speaking on his journey on the platform, he said, “I have been on YouTube for five years, consistent for three years, and on my fifth year, I surpassed the 100,000 marks. It is phenomenal, being the first Black African technology-focused creator to have received this award and it just shows that one doesn’t have to be extraordinary to get to this point.” He added, “the uniqueness in your original voice and story-telling is all the magic you need to succeed on the platform. People all over the world will subscribe to you, based on the value you’re providing to them.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .