 Nike Davies-Okundaye.<br />Chief Nike, or Mama Nike, as she is popularly called, is an award-winning designer, artist, textile designer and a spectacular woman. She is internationally known in contemporary art circles.  Chaired by Chief Diana Chen, Chairman of CIG Motors, the launch attracted Nobel laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka; the CEO of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Oscar Onyema; and other dignitaries.
 
Speaking at the event, Soyinka, a friend of ‘Mama’ Nike, commended her, said: “Today is all about my aburo; it’s always a delight to see her, the embodiment of gbogbo nishe – a multifaceted individual.
 
“Nike is one of the most exceptional and unique artists I’ve ever met, not because she uses herself as her own model of expression, but because she’s a walking piece of art that spreads joy all around. It’s an honour to celebrate with you today, aburo. It’s time for the world to get to know you and celebrate you,” the venerable writer  said.
 
Also speaking on the globally recognised artist, award-winning sculptor, painter and printmaker, Professor Bruce Obomeyoma Onobrakpeya, said: “The best setting to discover a genius is in the informal educational setting rather than the academy.”
 
Emphasising the need for reconones roots, the chief launcher, Chief Diana Chen, said: “We all know Nike Ogundaye. We recognise her for her unending talents, her alluring gallery and her impeccable style. We know about her, but hardly do we know her story. She has groomed thousands of talents throughout her life, but I believe that through her story, she’ll inspire millions more.”
 
The arts lover called on governments at all levels, private sectors and well-meaning Nigerians to always celebrate heroes and legends whilst alive, saying: “In the wake of this new movement, a pace has been set, by celebrating the life and biography of a daughter of the soil who has done the nation proud nationally and internationally.”
 
According to Onyema, Nike Art Gallery was a first stop when he first visited Nigeria in 2011. He said that she spent two hours introducing him to the Nigerian art. “It gives me great honour to be here at this launch. As you know, finance is a great catalyst of growth in any sector. This convergence is a required ingredient for economic growth.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .