Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday, tasked religious leaders to redouble their efforts in supporting government’s efforts aimed at containing the spread of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at a virtual meeting with Christian and Muslim leaders, he told the leaders that although government had deployed resources in tackling the second wave of COVID-19, data from its Emergency Operation Centre (EOC) showed that the pandemic would be more devastating, if precautionary measures were not strictly observed. “COVID-19 is with us again. It has come back with more venom and has become more virulent. It is spreading faster than it did during the first wave. “In the first wave, most of the cases were in Ikpoba Okha, Egor and Oredo councils, but now we are seeing alarming trends in Etsako West and Esan West councils. People are not adhering to the guidelines and that has become worrisome. “What is most disturbing is that children are now being highly infected, which is a major cause for concern. We are worried and we cannot fold our arms,” he stated. Obaseki urged religious organisations to play active roles in sensitising their members on adhering to COVID-19 prevention guidelines when in church and also when they interact with others in markets, parks and other public places. Chaplain of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), Venerable Osazee Egbenusi, said it was essential for the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Compliance Committee to ensure that churches adhere to the safety guidelines. Chairman of Edo State Chapter of CAN, Bishop Oyennude Kure, noted that religious leaders would activate the CAN COVID-19 Compliance Committee to monitor and ensure that churches were equipped with hand washing stations, observe social distancing and limit the duration of their services. Also, Chief Imam of Benin Central Mosque, Abdulfatah Enabulele, said he would communicate to the Muslim community on the fatality of the second wave of COVID-19 across the state so they could take personal responsibility for their safety. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .