THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has taken Kano State Independent Electoral Commission (KANSIEC) and the Ambassador Aminu Wali faction of the party to Kano High Court for contempt. PDP is charging KANSIEC for attempted impersonation and the use of its logo on the ballot for the Saturday, January 16, 2021 council poll. Similarly, the Kwankwasiyya faction is dragging the Wali faction for violating Justice Taiwo Taiwo’s judgment and parading himself as the PDP leadership. Addressing journalists yesterday in Kano, Chairman of PDP in the state, Alh. Shehu Sagagi, explained that the judgment delivered by the vocation judge of the Federal High Court sitting in Kano had set aside the Wali faction. Although Sagagi reaffirmed that the decision of PDP to boycott the poll was borne out of its doubt for credible conduct, he maintained that KANSIEC was, however, violating court verdict by admitting other candidates in the name of PDP. Sagagi declared that the outcome of the two litigations against the contending parties would determine the party’s next line of action. Though the Wali faction is challenging Taiwo’s ruling, Sagagi insisted that the October 23, 2020 judgment subsists until proven otherwise. “We are not asking the court to stop the election. Our demand is for the court to stop the illegality being condoned by KANSIEC. We have just one PDP in Kano and the court has determined that. But the electoral body accepting one faction as PDP is outright contempt of court and we would not accept that,” he said. Reacting to the legal action instituted by PDP, Chairman of KANSIEC, Professor Garba Sheka, insisted that “PDP is taking part in Saturday’s election,” adding that “the commission is ready for litigation.” Explaining that the commission had not received any formal notice on the court ruling declaring the Kwankwasiyya faction as the authentic PDP in Kano, he added that KANSIEC would remain focused. He said: “I’m sure you are aware that this is not the first time PDP is taking us to court and I am sure this one will not be the last one. We are prepared for them.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .