It’s a few days into the New Year and some screen celebrities have already started hugging movie sets. Some had a good run last year and it is expected that they will also have their hands filled this year in spite of the threat of COVID-19. Here are a few of the screen celebrities that were nominated, out of a large pool of onscreen personalities, as players to watch in 2021. However, the list is not in any way exhaustive. Funke Akindele Funke Akindele
Award-winning actress Funke Akindele-Belo is surely one Nollywood personality that will be busy in 2021. The actress, producer and later day director had a busy year (2020) working on her box office hit Omo Ghetto (The Saga). An industry observer revealed that the actress of the very popular television series Jenifa’s Diary was so soaked on the Scene One production that she hardly hard time to feature in other projects. She wrapped up work on Omo Ghetto starring Chioma Chukwuka-Akpotha and Eniola Badmus and by the time it was released across cinema, it became the buzz, grossing N98million in its opening weekend. By the following week, it crossed the N200 million mark, making it the highest grossing movie of the COVID era. With Omo Ghetto doing well at the cinemas and with plans to have it screen in selected Novo cinemas in the United Arab Emirate as from January 21, Funke hinted that she is now well disposed to taking on other projects that would translate into a busy year for her. Shaffy Bello
Notable actress Shaffy Bello had an amazing run in 2020 and the actress who first became noticeable after she featured in the 1997 hit song by Seyi Sodimu, Love Me Jeje, is most definitely going to be on call for the better part of 2021. The mother of two, whom most movie audiences met in works such as Chief Daddy, Love is War, Elevator Baby and Three Thieves where she played Madam Boss, is sure going to have a busy year because according to industry observers, the actress has somewhat become some Nollywood producers first choice for actress in a supporting role who can deliver believably. Ramsey Nouah, Jnr
Popular Nollywood actor turned Director Ramsey Nouah had a busy year in 2020 directing Rattle Snake by Play Network. Ramsey had his directorial debut in 2019 as director of the award-winning movie also by Play Network, Living In Bondage. With Rattle Snake off his shoulders now, the sky as they say will be the starting point for the actor who was born under the star sign Sagittarius. In fact sources say he is presently in the United States working on a production with the United States based filmmaker Robert Peters. Toyin Abraham Toyin Abraham 
A multi-award winning actress who has successfully signed two box office hit as producer— Alakada Reloaded and The Ghost and The Tout, Toyin Abraham had a busy year in 2020 working on the follow up to her 1999 hit movie, Fate of Alakada. The movie was released in cinemas just after the national COVID-19 lockdown was suspended and it reportedly did well at the box office. In between, Toyin found time to feature in other movie productions including Foreigners God and Kambili. The beautiful, multitalented and hardworking actress is the star actress in the new movie by Niyi Akinmolayan expected to be released in March 2021. Toyin revealed she’s already on location for another movie and will hop on the set of three others before the year runs out. Bimbo Akintola Bimbo Akintola 
Multi-award winning actress Bimbo Akintola had a very good year in 2020. The star of the movie on Ebola, 93 Days, featured in a couple of critically acclaimed movies last year including Masked, which earned her the best actress award at the 2020 edition of the Zuma International Film Festival. An actress of vast credit, 2021 will surely be a busy year for Bimbo who met viewers in their living rooms last year in movie productions such as Strain, Last Request and Comatose. Omowunmi Dada 
Notable Nollywood actress Omowunmi Dada had a good year in 2020. The dependable actress and model was the co-star of the 2020 wave-making movie by EbonyLife Production, Oloture. Observers say the actress who was able to retain her status as an actress to watch with her performance in Oloture and others such as The Sessions, Finding Hubby, A Tune Away and Country Hard. Observers expect nothing but a superlative performance this year from Omowunmi who closed the year with a beatific performance in the much-anticipated movie by Tunde Kelani titled Ayinla. Bimbo Manuel 
Veteran actor Bimbo Manuel had a good run in 2020. The stage and screen actor featured in some of the industry’s acclaimed hits of 2020 including In A Life Time, Unbreakable and This is My Desire. The year 2021 will surely be a busy one for the broadcaster and actor who hugs stage and screen roles so well. Kate Henshaw Kate Henshaw 
Screen diva Kate Henshaw looks good to having a good run in 2021. The actress who has a felt passion for fitness closed 2020 with a superlative performance as Nora in the movie I Need My Husband. Star of Akin Omotoso’s The Ghost and The House of Truth as produced by Ego Boyo, 2021 will surely be a busy year for the multi-award winning actress who revealed that she is on call for most part of 2021.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .