Kano State Government and Joint Negotiation Council (JNC) have reached an agreement to suspend the deduction of civil servants salaries and pensions in the state. The agreement could neutralise the threat of an industrial action and litigation already instituted against the government. The joint labour unions had warned the Kano State Government to stop further deduction of workers salaries and pensioners monthly allowance or face industrial action. The Judicial Union Workers already instituted legal action and exparte order compelling the state government to halt the deductions. Chairman of Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) in Kano, Comrade Kabiru Ado Mingibir told journalists that three resolutions were arrived at the end of the meeting between the JNC and the state government. Comrade Mingibir said the emergency meeting was held at the instance of the Secretary to the State Government, Usman Alhaji, and representatives of NLC, TUC, and other interest groups. NLC chairman disclosed that the government and JNC have agreed that workers will be returned to minimum wage of N30,600 as pledged and no further deduction will take place henceforth. According to him, “the government has agreed to stop deduction of workers salaries and pensioners take home henceforth. Government has also agreed to return to minimum wage of N30,600 and pledged beginning from January’s salaries since the FAC allocation is now improved. “The last resolution is that government will not deduction workers salaries henceforth without prior notice or consultation with labour unions and necessary stakeholders. “That means, if there is reduction in FAC allocation, there will be agreement on modalities on payment. We have warned the government to stop and not to reflect any deduction by January salary and with the pledge we hope no industrial action holds.” Reacting to the development, chairman of Trade Union Congress (TUC), Mansur Isa Adamu explained that JNC would remain firmly on its stand until government fulfill its pledges. The TUC chairman who, on one part applauded the courage of government to return to the minimum wage, however warned against renege it’s pledges. Meanwhile, chairman of Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN), Mukhtar Rabiu Lawan insisted JUSUN will not withdrawal its litigation against Kano state government until on the bases of pledges. Lawan, who spoke with The Guardian on Government/JNC resolution, vowed to sustain the struggle to restore their lawful right until government pays full salary and return the deducted percentage. “Our problem is that government is deducting our salaries without prior knowledge. Government must reach out to NLC and other unions on whatever action they will take on issues concerning us,” Lawan said. “We are not withdrawing our case from the court until and unless government pay full salary and return to the deduction.” Kano State Government had return to old minimum wage of N18,000 to state civil servants as effected in workers November and December, 2020 salaries. The state government said the deduction was necessary due to short fall in the monthly federal allocation and drastic reduction in the state Internally Generated Revenue (IGR).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .