 DELSU  As it has become in virtually every Nigerian university, the contest for the Vice Chancellorship was fierce and characterized by schemes. However, once his emergence was confirmed and announced, a therapeutic ambiance enveloped the University. The new Vice-Chancellor took over on a Saturday and formally resumed work the next Monday with thanksgiving at the St. Paul’s Catholic Church on campus. A flurry of activities was to follow. Meeting with Principal Officers, a meeting of the University Senate, a meeting of Congregation, meeting with Deans and Directors, visits to the different faculties and campuses took place in quick succession during which Professor Egwunyenga unfolded his vision for DELSU. The Professor of Zoology and veteran unionist told the University community that his vision was, “to lead, inspire and advance the repositioning of Delta State University to emerge as the best state university in Nigeria.”
 
Professor Egwunyenga delineated his development plan into six decipherable prongs namely; building an effective and motivated workforce, pursuit of innovation using ICT, strengthening faculties, departments and units, students administration and services, improving revenue base, and university administration and governance. It took him no time to announce three committees to drive a new vision for the University. The committees were the: Advisory Committee chaired by Professor C. P. Aloamaka, the Strategic Plan Committee headed by Professor Nelson Akpotu, and the Environment Committee headed by Architect Michael Asiafa.
 
One year on the saddle as Vice-Chancellor, Professor Egwunyenga, is able to look back and count his achievements. In doing so, he is not alone as members of the university community and even the general public without prodding, are able to point at the concrete and visible changes that he initiated in the last 365 days. At the 175th Senate meeting, held on Wednesday 25 November 2020, Professor Egwunyenga reeled out his achievements to the applause of a satisfied audience. Most significant so far is the reality of being the only public university in Nigeria to successfully complete the 2019/2020 session. A number of factors made this feat possible. First, the DELSU Chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is yet to be reintegrated into the national body after a misunderstanding put them asunder some years ago. Secondly, despite the setback to human activities occasioned by COVID-19 lockdown, Professor Egwunyenga inspired DELSU lecturers to adopt the virtual learning mode to ensure that a substantial portion of the different course outlines was taught online. Thus, besides using zoom for lectures and seminars, the ICT unit evolved the DELSU Learning Management System (DLMS) as a medium of instruction which kept academic work going during the global lockdown. The net result of this innovation was that students resumed in two streams for revision and examinations. This is a rare feat for Nigerian universities.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .