• Pinnick urges voters to ‘think Africa’ at Rabat General Assembly
The President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick says only a business-minded person can steer the ship of African football successfully, if the continent must be at par with global soccer. Pinnick, who has been cleared by FIFA Review Committee to seek a position for the FIFA Council in the 43rd Ordinary General Assembly of CAF on March 12 in Rabat, Morocco, spoke with BBC bureau in Lagos. Among other things, Pinnick revealed that he decided to throw his weight behind South Africa’s businessman and billionaire, Patrice Motsepe, in the forthcoming CAF Presidential election because of his leadership quality and business orientation. “CAF should have a successful businessman as its next president,” he said. “If you are a successful businessman, the way you think is always different from other people. That is why I am supporting Patrice Motsepe to become the next CAF president.” Motsepe, who owns Mamelodi Sundowns, was cleared by the Fifa Review Committee alongside Mauritania FA president, Ahmed Yahya ahead of the March 12 CAF Congress. They will compete against Ivory Coast’s Jacques Anouma and Senegal FA president Augustin Senghor, while suspended CAF president, Ahmad Ahmad, is declared ineligible for the election as he continues to serve his five-year ban from football-related activities. The interim CAF president, Constant Selemani Omari, is also not qualified for a seat in the FIFA Council because of an ongoing formal investigation by FIFA Ethics Committee. Meanwhile, Pinnick has urged delegates for the 43rd CAF Ordinary General Assembly slated for Rabat, Morocco, to ‘think Africa’ while casting their votes for the FIFA Council candidates. “The voters should think Africa. When you think Africa, you think about the future of African football,” he said. If Pinnick wins, he will become the third Nigerian to seat on the FIFA Council after Etubom Oyo Orok Oyo and Dr Amos Adamu, who had represented the continent on the hallowed chambers of world football governing body. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .