Grazing Plan to deploy 200 Amotekun operatives to Ibarapa, Oke-Ogun zones
Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, yesterday, said that his administration was implementing measures that would restore peace in Ibarapa, Oke-Ogun and other regions of the state. Part of the measures, according to him, include applying the Oyo State Open Rearing and Grazing Regulation Law, 2019, documentation of foreigners living in the state and ensuring synergy among security outfits in the state. The governor, who disclosed this on his verified social media pages, said that the measures would ensure peaceful co-existence among residents in parts of the state. He said that 200 operatives of the Western Nigeria Security outfit, code-named Amotekun, would be deployed to Ibarapa and Oke-Ogun zones. Makinde said: “We have resolved to redeploy 200 members of the Oyo State Western Nigeria Security Network, code-named Amotekun, to kidnapping and banditry hotspots in the state, especially in the Ibarapa and Oke-Ogun zones. These operatives will launch missions to rid the forests of criminals. They will be presenting daily reports of their activities to me in the short run and periodic reports in the long run.” “In the next few weeks, we will hold town hall meetings and community outreaches, bringing together residents and security agencies to talk about issues of immediate concern and how they can be resolved through dialogue and more effective community policing. “As stated in an earlier press conference, we will be proceeding with the documentation of foreigners, especially those who are working in mines. This will ensure that only foreigners who have legitimate interest in Oyo State will remain within our territory. “We will continue to enforce the Oyo State Open Rearing and Grazing Regulation Law, 2019. We have directed the Amotekun Corps to continue collaborating with ‘Operation Burst’ and local vigilante groups in enforcing this law. Our administration will continue to support the police and other federal security agencies in the state in the discharge of their duties. “We are aware that some farmers have been killed and/or lost their livelihoods to criminal trespass and damage by pastoralists. And so, the State Executive Council is considering the possibility of compensation to families of victims or victims of this criminality who can prove their claims,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .