The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has commended the officers attached to Police Mobile Force – 9 PMF Squadron, Kano for displaying uncommon gallantry and repelling an attack on their convoy by bandits numbering about 100 along the Birnin-Gwari-Funtua Highway at the weekend. The incident occurred when the officers were on their way back to their base in Kano after completing their special duty. They are personnel attached to Operation Puff Adder and deployed to Niger State for a sustained operation to reclaim public space and tackle incidents of banditry, kidnapping, and other violent crimes in the area. Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba (DCP), who disclosed the incident in a statement yesterday in Abuja, said contrary to unconfirmed reports in some sections of the media stating that 18 officers were kidnapped, only 16 were attacked in the ambush. “The officers successfully repelled the attack accordingly and neutralised the bandits while many of them escaped into the bush with gunshot injuries. “Regrettably, four of the officers paid the supreme price during the exchange of gunfire between the police and the bandits while an officer is still missing. However, the remaining 11 officers led by their unit commander successfully recovered the bodies and firearms of their fallen colleagues while concerted efforts are being intensified to rescue the officer still missing,” Mba said. According to him, the IGP, while commiserating with families of the officers who died in the service of their nation, assured that their death shall not be in vain. “The IGP assures the citizens that the Force is not deterred and will not relent in its commitment to delivering on its mandate and ensuring that all activities of bandits and other unscrupulous elements in the area and other parts of the country are brought to check,” the statement said. The Birinin Gwari Emirates Progressive Union (BEPU), in a statement by its Chairman, Salisu Haruna, commiserated with the Nigerian Police over the killing of the officers during the attack. “We salute the courage and resilience of the Nigerian Police Force, in the fight against banditry, kidnapping, and other crimes within the Birnin-Gwari general area and adjoining forest.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .