World silver medalist, Odunayo Adekuoroye, Kadijat Idris, Ebikewenimo Welson, and John Ogbonna won gold medals at the end of Day One maiden Baraza Champion of Champions wrestling tournament holding at the Ultra-modern Theatre of Wrestling Complex, Yenizue Gene in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Representing Ondo State, Adekuoroye defeated all comers in the 57kg of Women Wrestling to cart away the gold medal, while Esther Kolawole (Ondo State) won silver and Aboje Isioma (Delta State) picked the bronze medals. In the 50kg of the Women Wrestling, Kadijat Idris from Kogi State won the gold medal, while Oyo State’s Christiana Ogunsanya settled for silver and the bronze medal went to Princess Bankole from Ondo State. Bayelsa State’s Ebikewenimo Welson won the gold medal in the 57kg Freestyle, while Edo State’s Simeon Enolumimi claimed silver, and the bronze medal went to Stephen Akintewe from Ondo State. In the men’s Freestyle event, four-time African champion, John Ogbonna representing Ondo State won the gold medal in the 74kg class, while Rivers State representative, Amos Assizecourt, won silver, as Audu Erekpo from Bayelsa State settled for the bronze medal. Speaking after her achieving victory, Adekuoroye lauded the Nigeria Wrestling Federation President, Daniel Igali, for organising the competition ahead of the African championship. “Kudos to our president for organising this competition. If you are just training, training, and acquiring knowledge without being competitive, I think it is meaningless. “The competition here has really added value to our wrestling and preparation for the African Championships and Olympic qualifiers as well,” she stated. According to Ogbonna, the championship was an opportunity to showcase what he had been practising during the lockdown for almost a year of inactivity to maintain his form. “During the lockdown, we have been doing small, small things at home training gradually. Even in my personal house, I do the train. It is not easy to leave wrestling like that for a long time. “I thank God because it’s being a long time since I last won gold. It’s another testimony, and I am grateful for that,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .