Pirates kill one, kidnap 15 crew on Turkish ship
An accident at Otte, along Ilorin-Ogbomoso Expressway, Kwara State, yesterday claimed the lives of four persons. Seven persons, including three males and four females, also had varying degrees of injuries. The accident, according to an eye-witness, occurred around 6:15 p.m. and was linked to a collision involving a commercial Toyota Hummer bus with vehicle registration number FFA717YR and a truck. Kwara State Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Ilorin, Jonathan Owoade, who confirmed the incident, said  six victims were taken to the State General Hospital, Ilorin and one person taken to a private hospital at Eyenkorin, Ilorin, while the dead persons had been taken to the morgue of the State General Hospital, Ilorin. In another development, dare-devil pirates off the West African Coast have launched another attack kidnapping 15 sailors and killing one of the crew on Turkish cargo ship coming from Lagos enroute to South Africa. The Liberian-flagged M/V Mozart was sailing from Lagos, Nigeria, to Cape Town in South Africa when it was attacked on Saturday morning, 100 nautical miles (185 kilometres) northwest of the island nation of Sao Tome and Principe. Turkey’s Maritime Directorate said the crewmen initially locked themselves in a safe area but the pirates forced entry after six hours. During the struggle, one crew man aboard died. It identified the victim as Farman Ismayilov of Azerbaijan, the only non-Turkish crew member. After kidnapping most of the crewmen, the pirates left the ship in the Gulf of Guinea with three sailors aboard. According to reports, the pirates disabled most of the ship’s systems, leaving only the navigation system for the remaining crewmen to find their way to Gabon’s Port-Gentil. Maritime security consultancy, Dryad Global, described the attack as “an exceptional incident for both its severity and distance from shore.” Meanwhile, Turkey’s Foreign Minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said he had spoken with the senior officer remaining on the Mozart, Furkan Yaren, and that the morale and physical condition of the sailors aboard was good. “We are continuing co-ordinated negotiations for the release of the abducted sailors. The pirates have yet to make any response,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .