Odufuwa, Co-Founder Feminist Coalition All over the world, 2020 was perceived as the year of COVID-19 pandemic. Africa was not left out, as most countries, especially Nigeria, had to deal with a lot more than the pandemic, but also the EndSars protest against police brutality. There was also political and tribal unrest in Ethiopia, unstable presidential elections in Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana, while Uganda also witnessed unrest. This is why a shift towards the positives, especially amongst enterprising women of innovation and perseverance was a breathable relief, as Kamala Harris became the first woman, first Black, and the first Asian American Vice President of the United States Of America (USA). For many, Harris has not only become a role model, but also an affirmation of the power and place of women and people of colour, a fact that has become relevant not just in the USA but also globally. In Africa, more women are answering the call to public service at all levels of government. Many are holding key ministry roles and making decisions in areas such as finance, environment, natural resources, energy, employment, vocational training, trade and industry and others. Sagoe, Founder House of Deola, Nigeria The presence of women has been instrumental in changing the narratives of national socio-economic policies across the globe. To this effect, Global Group Media (GGM) recently unveiled the third of its three-part series, Rising Women Africa (RWA) Series, spotlighting dozens of global and African women who are thriving and influencing developments in the areas of politics, socio-economic development, health, education, technology, finance and culture. A 112 and above pages collection, the publication celebrates 70 women impacting Africa, their insights, advices, original photography. It has stories and interviews from women such as Fatou Bensouda, Chief Prosecutor, International Criminal Court (ICC), The Hague, Netherlands, Deloris P. Jordan, Founder of The James R. Jordan Foundation, Co-founder, Michael Jordan Foundation, and Founder, Kenya Women & Children’s Wellness Centre (KWCWC), Kenya, Josina Machel, Women’s Rights Activist and Founder of the Kuhluka Movement, Mozambique, Deola Sagoe, Founder House of Deola, Nigeria and others. The topics covered ranges from finance, personal independence, having outrageously big goals, mental health, and women in STEM, amongst others. This three-part series presented by GGM celebrates and centres women in Africa on the global stage by communicating their stories, projects, aspirations and their realities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .