 Obaseki.  Photo; TWITTER/GOVERNOROBASEKI  Market women in Edo State have applauded the Abuja Federal High Court, dismissal of the alleged certificate forgery case against Governor Godwin Obaseki, describing the ruling as a validation of the mandate Edo people gave the governor. In his judgment, Justice Adamu Mohammed, said the All Progressives Congress (APC) failed to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt that Obaseki forged his certificates, noting, “Allegation of forgery borders on crime, which must be proved beyond reasonable doubt.” Justice Mohammed added: “Having thoroughly analysed the evidence of the case, it is the conclusion of this court that the plaintiff did not forge his certificates, especially his University of Ibadan (UI) degree certificate. Accordingly, the plaintiffs’ case is dismissed.” Traders in Edaiken Market, who celebrated the judgment, urged the Edo APC and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu to accept the choice of Edo people, who voted for Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shaibu for another four years in office. They also urged President Muhammadu Buhari to call the leaders of the APC in Edo State to order and allow Obaseki to focus on consolidating his administration’s reforms to Make Edo Great Again. A trader in Edaiken Market, Mrs. Esther Irabor, said: “I am excited at the news of the dismissal of the certificate forgery case against Governor Obaseki. We were convinced that the governor was qualified for the office of Governor with the statements from UI. “We urge APC leaders and the candidates to accept the choice of Edo people. You could feel the pulse in the market yesterday after the news of the dismissal of the case broke.” Another trader, Rosemary Okosodo, said the judgment was an affirmation of the divine mandate Edo people gave the governor during the September 19, 2020 election. “From the onset, I knew that the Edo APC had no case against the governor. In the past four years, we have seen how Governor Obaseki’s approach to governance was a departure from the old order, especially with his reforms and how he managed the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic without hurting businesses.”
Someone without a certificate can’t bring such class to governance,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .