Tottenham Hotspur’s Welsh striker Gareth Bale passes the ball during the English FA Cup fourth round football match between Wycombe Wanderers and Tottenham Hotspur at Adams Park Stadium in High Wycombe, west of London on January 25, 2021. (Photo by Adrian DENNIS / AFP) /  / Gareth Bale’s goalscoring performance was labelled as “good” by Tottenham Hotspur manager Jose Mourinho after the Premier League club came from behind to beat Championship side Wycombe 3-1 in their FA Cup fourth-round tie. Mourinho’s assessment will boost the spirits of the 31-year-old Wales star, who has had an underwhelming second spell at Spurs since coming on a season-long loan from Real Madrid. He has been hampered by fitness issues and mostly been confined to Europa League games, playing just 45 minutes of Premier League football since early November. Mourinho though played him for the full 90 minutes of the Wycombe game, and Bale showed his rustiness in front of goal by spurning several chances after he had drawn the sides level. However, Mourinho said his overall performance — which set them up with a tough fifth-round trip to Everton — had been pleasing. “It was good,” said Mourinho. “Some good movement. “Some one against one, beating people, attacking people, creating chances. Of course scoring a goal.” Mourinho had spoken ahead of the game of how Bale could not expect to be given game time and that he had to earn it on what he did on the training ground. “Apart from that I never felt he couldn’t play the 90 minutes,” he said. “I never felt that I needed to change him. “Of course the Championship is a good, competitive level and the aggression is high and the intensity is good. “So I’m happy.” Mourinho’s side are still involved in four competition’s including the title race and face out of form champions Liverpool on Thursday. Should the Portuguese wish for a relaxing moment prior to that his Wycombe counterpart Gareth Ainsworth, who sings in a rock band, gave him a tantalising invite. “He (Mourinho) said he might not be able to sing but I bet he can play a mean tambourine,” said Ainsworth. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .