 Muhammadu Buhari  That perceived hangover raised the bar on succession politics, which became a kind of placebo for the apparent lack of good governance in the country. That development threw up contentions over the issue of which part of the nation should produce President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor. There were allegations that the north was planning to keep the Presidency in the zone despite the power rotation understanding in the country. Partisan discord
The governing All Progressives Congress (APC) entangled itself in leadership wrangling, especially the dogfight between the erstwhile national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiohole and Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki.
 
As it turned out, what started as a local misunderstanding within the Edo State chapter of APC snowballed into a major fissure for national insurrection by entrenched political forces against the party’s leadership. Attempts to resolve the raging battle through the courts suffered from frequent interlocutions, leading to multiple claimants of position of acting national chairman.  Not least political eruption was the #ENDSARS protests Nigerian youth embarked upon to draw attention to the brutality of a unit of the Nigeria Police Force, Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). But the protest almost snowballed to a political weapon, with demands for good governance creeping in before it was ruthlessly crushed by military intervention. Scared by the unprecedented synergy of otherwise docile youth President Buhari had written off as ‘lazy’, the government believed the youth were out to overthrow the President Buhari-led government. This belief led to the freezing of the bank accounts of leaders of the protesters and even arrest and prosecution of some of them. NASS’ travails
THE 9th National Assembly suffered a great deal of credibility problems within the year 2020, stemming no doubt from the haste to ingratiate itself to the Presidency. The rubberstamp slur stuck to both chambers after the floor functionaries fell back on President Buhari’s support to emerge as leaders.
 
However, the nagging state of insecurity across the country threatened the buxom relationship between the federal legislature and the executive, as NASS’ desperate insistence on smooth ties with Buhari crippled their ability and responsibility to serve as checks and balances to the executive.  THE sad cases of terrorism and insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, and herdsmen’s attacks, which has held the country to ransom got to a climax in 2020 with the gruesome slaughtering of 67 rice farmers in Zabarmari in Borno State by the Boko Haram insurgents. It was a sad development that was closely followed by the kidnapping of over 300 Kankara students in Katsina State.
 
In a bid to regain their good name, lawmakers warned Lawan against preventing them from expressing their anger on the floor, because it was only when agreed that free and frank commentaries could be made. That was when the floodgate of blunt revelations began. But, all the blunt submissions and revelations remain mere advisories to be taken or rejected by the president. 
 
Some lawmakers grumbled in subdued manner, saying: “We are tired of offering a minute silence for our slain constituents.” But they could not go further than consolations and lamentations, particularly after resolutions that service chiefs be sacked has repeatedly been rebuffed by the president.  Dichotomy
THE 9th National Assembly’s closest action on jolting the executive to awake to its duties was the resolution by the House of Representatives to invite President Buhari to answer questions on how his administration had handled insecurity. 
 
The move however received serious attacks even from some leaders of the National Assembly, who later forced the House leadership to not only renege but tacitly apologised to the president for “the embarrassment” caused. It also caused some form of rift between the upper and lowers chambers, as the Senate not only distanced itself from the invitation, but also sought to align with the presidency.
 
The Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo – Agege, faulted the invitation extended by the House of Representatives to President Muhammadu Buhari and described it as unconstitutional. Noting that the House of Representatives went beyond its bounds, Omo-Agege said: “I am a constitutionalist. I believe that we are operating a presidential system of government. I believe in the concept of the separation of powers. We have three equal arms of government. The framers of our Constitution did not envisage that one arm of government will be summoning the head of another co-equal arm of government to come and offer explanation on the floor.”
 
When a joint session was being arranged for the president to deliver address on security matters, even if behind closed-door, the Senate swiftly and loudly objected and glossed over remarks by the Attorney-General that National Assembly had no powers to summon Mr. President.  “Protecting the life and property of citizens is the primary obligation of government and any government that cannot discharge this basic obligation loses any iota of legitimacy.” 
 
Shettima further noted; “From the 1st of January (2020) to this day, we have had 2,800 attacks in Borno State. Boko Haram fighters are virtually ruling all our rural areas. They kill and abduct people at will. They’re targeting farmers and this will create hunger in the North. Government officials keep saying that Boko Haram has been technically defeated. This claim is not true.”
 
Supporting the allegation of poor performance, the Senator representing President Buhari’s Senatorial District in Katsina, Ahmed Baba Kaita, said: “The time of truth has come. This situation is no longer acceptable to any Nigerian. We can’t be mourning our citizens in and out everyday. We can’t accept the explanation from those who should do the right thing whenever there is an attack. If the statement from Garba Shehu is true, that’s very irresponsible.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .