• Angry PDP youths barricade Govt House gate over alleged marginalisation Unknown gunmen have reportedly killed an army officer and a policeman in a military checkpoint at Oton Community in Sapele, Delta State. The Guardian learnt that the gunmen came with a speedboat through the Oton River and shot the uniformed men at the checkpoint on Sunday night. A security source confirmed the attack, saying one army officer and a policeman were killed, but the situation was still unclear.
ALSO, armed bandits killed one Frank E. Nikoro close to Water Resources junction along the Warri-Sapele road in Uvwie Council of the state at the weekend. “The deceased was killed in front of Stanbic IBTC Bank near Water Resources junction along the Warri-Sapele road. “His killers trailed him to the bank where he parked his car and shot him at close range, while attempting to run and he died on the spot,” the source said. When contacted, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state Police Command, DSP Oneme Onovughagbogaye, confirmed the incidents, saying the police are already investigating the killings. MEANWHILE, hundreds of angry PDP Youths in Ward 7, Nsukwa/Ashama Clan, Aniocha South Council, yesterday, besieged Government House, Asaba to protest what they described as marginalisation against them over the years. The protest, which lasted hours, almost disrupted government activities. Armed with placards bearing inscriptions such as: Nsukwa Is Long Overdue For Appointments, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa End Nsukwa Political Marginalisation and Nsukwa Is Your Maternal Home, among others, they said the PDP-led government had denied them government appointments at the state and council levels since 1999. Spokesman of the protesting youths, Kingsley Uchenna, said: “It is appalling that since 1999, there has not been any appointment of any person from Ward 7 at the state and local government levels, while other wards around Nsukwa Clan have had several political appointments.” Uchenna lamented that the recent Vice Chairmanship position zoned to Nsukwa was given to Ward 9 (Isheagu/Ewulu), specifically the daughter of Joe Adigwe, who is an appointee of the Okowa administration. He noted with sadness that Adigwe and other PDP leaders wewere re behind the obvious malpractice being perpetuated against them in the scheme of things, but appealed to the governor to reverse the nomination of the Vice Chairmanship position to Ward 7 for fairness and equity. Responding, Senior Special Adviser (SSA) to Governor Okowa on Political Matters, Austin Oniawa, commended the youths for the peaceful protest and assured that the governor would address their concerns soon.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .