The Indo Eye Care Foundation Hospital, Ajao Estate, in collaboration with the Sanyukt Bhartiva Association (SABHA), a body of Indian community living in Nigeria, has provided a 50-bed isolation centre with modern medical equipment estimated at N250 million to assist victims of COVID-19 in Nigeria. The centre, located at No 9, Murtala Mohammed Airport Road, near ERM Diagnostic, under new U-Turn Bridge, 7 & 8 Bus Stop, Ajao Estate, is fully equipped with modern medical equipment, water, electricity, lift, entertainment equipment and standby power supply. The isolation centre was closed down on December 1, 2020, when it was discovered that cases of the pandemic were on the decrease. Indo Eye Foundation, a charitable organisation, SABHA and other supporters initiated treatment of COVID-19 at the centre which doubles as Treatment Centre type II. SABHA commended the governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for ordering the re-opening of the centre due to the second wave of the pandemic, which was carried out at the instance of the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akinola Abayomi. The Indo Eye Care Foundation hospital, where the isolation centre is also situated, was initially built to provide eye care for the underprivileged with the principal trustees of the foundation as Mr. Narambhai Patel and Dr. Deep Mirani, who partnered with the late Dr. Ram Purohit of Smt. Lilawatiben Mohanlal Shah (Billimoriawala) Eye Hospital at Navsari, Gujarat, India. The Indo-Eye Care Foundation Hospital is also a brainchild of Rotary Club of Lagos, Palmgrove Estate, District 9110 Lagos, where Rotarian Ramesh Biswal was a past president, and also served as Assistant District Governor. The foundation, in addition to successfully carrying out seven Cornea transplant surgeries in Nigeria, has put smiles on the faces of a lot of Nigerians in its free eye surgery operations carried out in different parts of the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .