The Social Democratic Party (SDP) has advised Nigerians to use 2020 challenges to douse 2021 struggles.
 
In a statement, yesterday, the former Minister of Defence and chieftain of the party, Dr. Olu Agunloye, said one of the new struggles that could be used primarily to douse challenges of the past was the need to enshrine social justice through a new drive to restructure the system. The party emphasised the need for political leadership to enthrone a correct Constitution for the country,  such that could provide proper guidelines and guidance on “how we live, work, share profits, penalties, and rewards together.”
   
The party said Nigerians must learn how to select or elect only credible, competent and compassionate people into positions of leadership. “The new struggle will have to revamp nationwide efforts to attack gross unemployment of youths, assure youths empowerment and their placement in positions of leadership across the country,” it said.
 
The party added that the main thrust for the new struggle should be resentment of the place where the nation is presently. It said: “We are not where we want to be or where we ought to be. Nigerians of diverse status agree that the country is not at its best. They only disagree on what caused this and how to get out of the woods. At this point, it is noteworthy that the life of Nigeria, as a nation, has been held in abeyance for 55 years since January 1966. That was when the Constitution was suspended by unwarranted military interregnum. “We cannot but refer to the misrule and misgoverning by the military and civilian governments since Independence and especially in the last 21 years, but this is not where or when to dwell on this aberration. What is important at this point is that the life of the nation has hung in abeyance for 55 years without valid rules, guidelines, guidance and regulations known as Constitution made by we the people of Nigeria.”
 
The party added that all social democrats and other progressives should be in this new struggle to structure and restructure the basis of the nation’s union to assure social justice, equity and fairness for the progress for all sectors, all ethnicities and all regions of Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .