 Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar (left); Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; National Security Adviser, Gen Babagana Mongono (rtd) and Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar at the meeting of National Council of Islamic Affairs at the State House, Abuja…yesterday  The President was addressing the leadership of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), led by its President-General and Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, during a courtesy call to the State House. He said: “The Federal Government will continue to promote religious freedom as it is a constitutional responsibility. I must thank the Muslim Ummah for promoting inter-religious dialogue in the country. It is self-evident that if the country must work, we must continue to work together in spite of our ethnic, religious and political differences because Nigeria is our collective project. “Accordingly, the Federal Government, under my leadership, does not and will not allow religious prejudice or partisanship to influence any of its decisions and policies. It is my solemn decision to be fair and just to all segments of society.” Buhari assured the delegation that government was doing all within its powers to bring the current state of insecurity to the barest minimum, calling on the local community to assist security forces as they perform their duties. He also spoke on efforts of his administration towards making life better for the average Nigerian. Earlier, the Sultan commended the Nigerian leader for the successes achieved so far in the North East, appealing to the current administration to deal decisively with the banditry in Zamfara, Katsina, Sokoto and some parts of the North Central. While expressing confidence that security forces, with better synergy among them, would overcome the current challenges, the NSCIA leader solicited cooperation of the governors and Nigerians for the new service chiefs. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .