 Rivers United’s Ovoke Bernard (right) being challenged by a player of Rangers FC of Enugu in their NPFL match in Port Harcourt. Rivers United won 1-0<br />  Owumi, one of those who made Rangers International of Enugu a delight to watch in his playing days, was elected chairman of the then Nigerian Premier League (NPL) in May 2010 but left soon after. But the respected club administrator is back and is expected to resume office after the upcoming Annual General Meeting of the LMC. He replaces Hon. Nduka Irabor, a celebrated Nigerian journalist and former Member of the House of Representatives, was the first Chairman of the LMC before becoming its CEO and resigned from the position months ago. Speaking with The Guardian yesterday, the Delta State-born ex-Green Eagles midfielder said that he would take his time before making public statement about the new LMC job. “Whatever position that comes your way, you have to give Glory to God. I am happy, but I won’t say anything until I get an official letter to that effect.” He added: “The job as Chief Executive Officer of the LMC is familiar terrain to me. But at the moment, it is like moving from known to the unknown because I am already putting up solid structure at Rangers FC in Enugu. As I said, I will wait for the appropriate time before making extensive comments on it. It is a call to national duty, and I won’t run away from it. Let’s wait for the official letter to that effect. I am ready,” he stated. While approving Owunmi’s appointment for the LMC job on Wednesday, the President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick said: “The LMC has started the new season on a positive note, putting their best foot forward with the telecast of the matches on NPFL.TV and some star games on NTA. The excitement is back and the spirit is right. It is the right time to bring in a class act like Owumi to help in steering the ship in the sterling direction that it has assumed.” Owumi is a titan in Nigeria’s domestic football as a player and administrator of note. His football playing career started from his primary school days, and then played for Government College, Ughelli, NEPA FC and NNPC FC both of Warri, Flash Flamingoes, Bendel United, Sharks FC of Port Harcourt among others, and had stints in Greece, Cyprus, Qatar, and Spain in his professional football career. He also featured briefly for the Senior National Team. In 1993, Owumi emerged the League’s highest goal scorer, and three years later, became Coach of 1977 Africa Cup Winners’ Cup champions, Rangers International FC of Enugu. Since then, he has served as Chairman of the club, as well as MD/CEO of Warri Wolves, Board Member of Nigeria Premier League, and as Chairman of the Nigeria Premier League. He is presently General Manager of Rangers International FC of Enugu. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .