President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), to collaborate with Dynali Company, a Belgian Helicopter Manufacturing Company, for the local production of helicopters. The President gave the directive at a meeting with the Board of NASENI at the State House, Abuja, on Tuesday. Buhari also approved the National Tractor Refurbishment and Recovery Programme, to cater for the repairs and repositioning of more than 55,000 tractors across the country, He directed the NASENI to work towards bridging the gaps in research and technology that keeps Nigeria waiting on other countries for supplies and solutions, especially in tackling challenges like the COVID-19 pandemic. The president, who is also the Chairman of the Board, said the agency should play a more pivotal role in equipping the country during emergencies while encouraging research, upgrading local skills, fabrication and international collaborations that would provoke growth in science and technology. “The uniqueness of the mandate of NASENI as enshrined in its enabling law towards the actualisation and realisation of our development programmes such as the creation of Ten Million jobs; Economic Recovery and Growth Programme (ERGP) and Post COVID-19 sustainability Plan. “It is the only deliberate deployment of Engineering, Science, Technology and Innovation (ESTI) using technology domestication and reverse engineering of capital goods. “Making them available in Nigeria that can fast-track realisation of our collective will to build capacity and reduce poverty among our teeming populace. “The countries that are at the forefront of economic recovery have only one thing in common: investment and sustained research and development work in the knowledge economy. “COVID-19   pandemic   has exposed the   Technology   and   innovation   gap   between   us   and   the developed World, which NASENI is strategically positioned to fill.’’ Buhari said he had earlier approved the reconstitution and inauguration of the Governing Board on March 8,   2018, with a clear mandate to develop local capacity in machine building and fabrication, which would be critical to Nigeria’s industrial development. “However, in order to realise its full potential, NASENI must be empowered through the provision of adequate financial, human and material resources and be given the autonomy and independence to forge international partnerships to acquire the relevant technologies for socio-economic and industrial advancement of the country. “In this regard, I have directed the Honourable Minister of Finance, Budget   and   National   Planning   and   Federal   Inland   Revenue Service to commence remittance of funds approved by Law to the Agency.’’ The president also directed the Minister of Finance to conclude negotiation and acceptance of 85 per cent funding source for the establishment of Solar Cells production, High Voltage testing laboratory and   Transformer in collaboration with China Great Wall Industry Corporation (CGWIC). “It is important for members of NASENI Governing Board to note that Agencies of Government with the similar   mandate as NASENI in many countries are directly under the supervision of their respective Heads of State and Government.’’ In his remarks, the Executive Vice Chairman of NASENI, Prof. Mohammed Haruna, said the agency had invested in human capacity development that translated into manufacturing of a kinetic turbine, pre-paid metres, transformers, brick moulding machines, laboratory equipment and unmanned aerial drones. He said the agency also intervened in producing 3D-masks, ventilators and environment disinfectants for the COVID-19. Haruna also revealed that the agency had constructed electronic voting systems and was already working on locally produced jet engines and assemblage of passenger and military helicopters.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .