Operation Thunder Strike 2 before take-off. Photo/TWITTER/ NigAirForce Bandits on Nasarawa borders targeting Benue land, says Ortom
Operation Thunder Strike, during joint ground and air patrols in Chikwale village, Chikun Council of Kaduna State, at the weekend, neutralised a gang of bandits. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who made this known in Kaduna yesterday, added that aggressive ground and air patrols would continue in the general area. Aruwan said the patrols that led to the assault followed reports of bandits’ movement towards Akilhu village in Kachia Council. His words: “According to the operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government, no contact was made initially by the ground troops. The air component, however, conducted further armed reconnaissance into the forest, and scores of armed bandits were sighted on motorcycles around Gidan Sule. The bandits scampered for cover as the fighter jet crew engaged them. “The fighter jets conducted further missions in quick succession, as the bandits were tracked. When they eventually re-grouped to continue their movement, they were neutralised by the fighter jets around the inter-state boundary.” Governor Nasir el-Rufai, the commissioner added, expressed satisfaction at the report, and thanked the troops for their relentless tracking of the criminals during the mission. MEANWHILE, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has said that the armed bandits on the Benue/Nasarawa borders are targeting Benue lands. The governor’s spokesman, Terver Akase, made the assertion in a telephone conversation with newsmen, at the weekend, following the alarm raised by Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State that Boko Haram members, criminal herdsmen and other bandits were infiltrating his state through the borders. His words: “Their target will always be Benue State, even as they are now assembling in Nasarawa. “Governor Samuel Ortom had alerted the nation a long time ago about the agenda of these people to take over our land.” He intimated that Benue State Security Council would take further action, after meeting this week on the issue. “The state government has been proactive on the issue and will sustain its collaboration and support to security agencies to guarantee the safety of the people,” Akase added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .