• Ratifies treaty on agriculture research The Federal Executive Council (FEC), yesterday, approved what it called “Harmonised Retirement Age for Teachers Bill, 2021” which also seeks to attract the best brains to the teaching profession in Nigeria. The piece of legislation, specifically, targets legal backing for new measures by the current administration to enhance the vocation nationwide. FEC, at its resumed meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja, sanctioned the bill, which would be transmitted to the National Assembly for consideration and possible approval. Buhari presides over the weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) Meeting. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV  Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, told State House correspondents at the end of the gathering that highlights of the proposed law include the introduction of bursary award and special rural posting allowances to attract the best into the occupation. ALSO, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo, said the parley okayed an N1.484 billion contract for the upgrade of electrical facilities at the Calabar Free Trade Zone (FTZ), initially awarded in 2018, but not completed. “So, we brought a memo and council approved the sum of N1.484 billion for the completion of the Calabar FTZ area,” he clarified. Also speaking, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Sabo Nanono, said the forum ratified a treaty seeking to enhance training and research of agricultural scientists, among others in member-countries. He pointed out that the import of the pact, titled “Plant Genetic Resource for Food and Agriculture”, was to advance the resource base of member-nations. Nanono added that “the entire treaty is meant to boost agricultural production in the country, as it affects 167 others.” Prior to the meeting, three members of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) and a member of the Police Service Commission (PSC) were sworn in. The CBC members included Ehiozuwa Johnson Ogbonayinma; Babtunde Olayinka Balogun and Benedict Umeano, while Onyemuche Nnamani was inaugurated for the PSC. Besides, the minutes of silence was observed in honour of two former ministers, Jubril Martins Kuye and Bala Kaoje. Kuye, who was Minister of Finance from 1999 to 2003 and later Minister of Commerce from 2010-2011, died on Sunday, January 17, 2021, at the age of 78. Kaoje, who exited on Tuesday, January 19, at 60 years, was Minister of Sports in 1999. The weekly parley was attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, and Chief of Staff to the President, Prof Ibrahim Gambari. Others, who graced the meeting, were Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami; his Police Affairs and Transportation counterparts, Muhammadu Dingyadi and Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Folasade Yemi-Esan, and other ministers participated virtually. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .