NEW YORK, NEW YORK – DECEMBER 02: Kanye West and Kim Kardashian West attend the Versace fall 2019 fashion show at the American Stock Exchange Building in lower Manhattan on December 02, 2018, in New York City. (Photo by Roy Rochlin/Getty Images) Kim Kardashian and Kanye West‘s recent marriage issues will be making the cut for the final season of Keeping Up with the Kardashians, according to a report by Page Six. For several weeks, the media have been saturated with reports that Kardashian and West are on the brink of divorce. TMZ claimed that the couple had been in marriage counselling for several months in a bid to resolve their issues. NBC News reported that a source close to the family said the celebrity couple had been “living separately for the past few months”. In a new report by Page Six, a source close to the couple said that the couple’s marriage dissolution will be a major feature of the Kardashian’s reality television series. Keeping Up With The Kardashians will come to an end this year | Image: Getty Images The source said that “the disintegration of Kim and Kanye’s marriage will feature heavily” in KUWTK’s final storyline which is ending after more than a decade-long run and 20 seasons on E! The couple are reportedly negotiating a settlement and dividing their assets but keeping the particulars under wraps until a dramatic televised reveal. The source said, “the Kardashians intend to go out with a bang. They’ve filmed Kim discussing her marriage problems. But everybody involved is on a nondisclosure agreement because the finale won’t screen until later in 2021.” Kanye and Kim Kardashian share have four children: daughter North, 7; son Saint, 5; daughter Chicago, 3; and son Psalm, 20 months. In July last year West launched a bid for the US presidency with a rambling speech that saw him emotional at his first campaign rally in South Carolina while discussing abortion and claimed that he and Kim once considered aborting daughter North. He also posted a series of since-deleted tweets, that accused his wife and mother-in-law of trying to lock him up, and suggested he was seeking a divorce. Kardashian West called on the media and public to show “compassion and empathy” following her husband’s erratic behaviour.