Following the directive of the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo–Olu, to the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) to impound vehicles with covered number plates in the state, the command has impounded six cars for violating the law in different parts of the metropolis. The directive of the governor was reechoed one week ago by the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Hakeem Odumosu. Five of the vehicles have been transferred to the Lagos State Task Force on Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences. The sixth, a Mercedes Benz, ML 350, was intercepted and impounded in Victoria Island by RRS officers led by the commander, Olayinka Egbeyemi, around 9:30 p.m. on Saturday. According to the spokesman of the squad, Moliki Femi, “the driver of the vehicle, one Adam Oluremi, 32, threatened and mobilised a military man to shoot the officers. The officers professionally de-escalated the crisis and successfully towed the vehicle to RRS headquarters.” Receiving a briefing on the issue, CP Hakeem Odumosu directed that the vehicle be impounded and the driver prosecuted, maintaining that nobody is above the law of the land. Meanwhile, RRS Commander, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, has charged officers of the squad to be professional in the discharge of their responsibilities, maintaining that they are civil and firm in enforcing the law. He urged the officers to be dedicated and not to give room for distractions while on duty. Egbeyemi stated that law-abiding Lagosians should look forward to a robust relationship with RRS, noting that the squad would be uncompromising with criminals. He added that criminals should either shape up with the laws of the state or relocate. The Lagos State Police Command had given an ultimatum to clamp down on users of unregistered vehicles, vehicles without number plates, vehicles with covered, defaced, or fake number plates, escorts vehicles without number plates, as well as illegal number plates showing names, titles, or social status. Lagos State Commissioner of Police Odumosu had directed the RRS to clamp down on violators of traffic laws and to embark on massive enforcement at the expiration of the ultimatum. “Users of plate numbers with special inscriptions like ‘Chief,’ ‘Chairman,’ ‘Ambassador,’ ‘Baale,’ ‘Iya Oloja’ ‘Sarki’ or bearing personal names, among others, are required by law to register such customised number plates. Escort vehicles and bullion vans must also be registered,” Odumosu said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .