Iwuanyanwu An elder statesman, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, has said agitation for a Sovereign State of Biafra by leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu would yield no positive results unless all Igbo stakeholders support the movement. He argued that IPOB and Kanu’s agitation was instead, endangering the lives and aspirations of Igbo people, especially the youths and his (Kanu’s) followers. He stated this when the Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL) conferred its grand patron award on him in Owerri, Imo State at the weekend. Iwuanyanwu, who is a member, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) urged Kanu to follow the example of the late Biafra leader, Chukwuemeka Odimegwu Ojukwu, if he hoped to make any headway with his agitations. “Before the beginning of Biafra war in 1967, Ojukwu did not ignore Igbo elders and he never declared Biafra on his own. It was people from the academics, businessmen, civil and public servants that called upon him to declare a State of Biafra and be its leader. “That was why Ojukwu was able to hold Nigeria for three years without rebellion. Most of us who fought the war were intelligent, but we had to join and fight the war and we are very proud that we fought that war,” he stated. He stressed that Nnamdi Kanu could not declare Biafra alone and ask people like him (Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu) to follow him, adding: “Even in a monarchical system, people’s opinions are sought. “What do you have that you are declaring war here and there? You are only endangering the lives of your brothers, the youth who you claim to lead. You have to come and seek advice from Igbo elders. They are the people that will guide you. “All we are asking is to restructure Nigeria, which former Head of State Yakubu Gowon agreed to do, but his people rebuked him. Gowon also tried his best to fulfill most of the things that were agreed before the end of the war.” Earlier, President General of COSEYL, Goodluck Ibem told Iwuanyanwu that their decision to recognize him as their grand patron was because of his achievements anchored on his exemplary leadership qualities towards meeting the yearnings and aspirations of Ndigbo and Nigerians in general.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .