   Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, yesterday, confirmed that four persons died and 11 were hospitalised, following an explosion, which occurred at Osadebe Gas Plant, along the expressway, at Agbor. The governor, who visited the scene of the explosion, yesterday, disclosed that victims’ property was also destroyed. He described the fire disaster as an unfortunate incident and promised the state government would pick the victims’ medical bills. He said the surviving patients were referred to a specialised centre for treatment of burns at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) for further treatment because of the high degree of burns they sustained. “It was an unfortunate fire incident involving a gas station, where the tanker was trying to discharge gas. We have visited the place and the victims and we have seen the extent of damage caused by the inferno. We lost four persons, three children, and a woman. “After my visit to the two families that lost their dear ones, I also visited the Central Hospital, Agbor, where they were initially rushed to with varying degree of burns ranging from 80 to 90 per cent. “They were immediately offered medical services, even though they wouldn’t have been able to attend to them, because of the extent of the burns. So, they had to transfer them to the Federal Medical Centre, Asaba, and the University of Benin Teaching Hospital with aid of ambulances provided by the state government. “I have directed the Commissioner for Health to make some deposits at the hospitals to enable them to have full treatment,” he said. On siting of gas plants at residential areas, he said he would liaise with the State House of Assembly for a law to regulate such investments. “Obviously, it is a sad situation and we thank God that this one wasn’t close to a densely populated area, otherwise the damage would have been more. I have just told the member representing Ika South Constituency, Festus Okoh, that I am going to meet with the House of Assembly to enact a law to that effect,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .