A tourism promotion outfit, Ufitfly, has concluded plans for an international golf competition involving Nigerian players and their Tanzanian counterparts in the East African country. To this end, the destination management company said it would take a select group of Nigerian golfers to Seacliff Golf Resort in Zanzibar, as part of its drive to enhance Nigeria’s sports tourism. Ufitfly’s Team Leader, Evang. Ogunkeyede Ajibola, disclosed that the competition will take place from February 13 to 21, adding it would involve  players from such high profile clubs as Ibadan Golf Club, Ikeja Glolf Club, Ikoyi Golf Club, Abeokuta, Ilorin, Micom Golf Ada, Smokin Hills, Ilara-Mokin, Abuja Golf Club, and Port Harcourt Golf Club, among others. Tagged, ‘Playing golf and connecting with nature,’ Evang. Akinola explained: “The rationale is to connect the two nations together in peace and harmony with the popular game of golf, as we all know that sports brings people together irrespective of race, colour and gender. The idea is to use golf to preach peace to all and sundry.” He revealed that Nollywood Star, Lateef Adedimeji, who is now trying to embrace golf, would be the celebrity star leading other tourists on the leisure trip to one of the most beautiful Islands on the planet. “At Seacliff Golf Resorts, which is the only golf course on the island of Zanzibar, golfers will enjoy our 9-hole Matkovitch course with its clubhouse, under-cover driving range and practice greens, while enjoying the natural features of the island. Two of the last holes are played along the Indian Ocean. The course has been designed with variation in distance and direction on the front and back 9 to create an experience of playing full 18 holes. The course has a par 71, which includes short and long par 4’s and a couple of drivable options. “Golf is not just about scoring. It is a walk in the park, an experience for all the senses and hours of incomparable therapy. Golfers should leave the course with an irresistible urge to return. That’s why each and every one of the golf courses designed by Peter Matkovich is a special creation, enhancing the unique features of each site and the character of the land. Each course tells its own story,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .