The Police Command in Yobe on Monday said it had arrested four men for allegedly gang raping minors in various parts of the state. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Dungus Abdulkarim, disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Damaturu. He said three of the alleged rapists, Musa Mohammed, 25, Mohammed Dahiru, 27, Adamu Saidu, 46, were arrested on Dec. 25 by men of Potiskum Divisional Police Headquarters for allegedly gang raping a 13-year-old girl. Abdulkarim said the rapists took advantage of Christmas break to lure the girl into Brema Primary School in the town and had carnal knowledge of her. Similarly, the spokesman said that the Geidam Divisional Police Headquarters had on Dec. 26, arrested one Bako Umaru, 35, for allegedly abducting and raping an 11-year-old girl at Hausari area, inflicting severe injury on her private part. He said the girl lost excess blood in the act and was receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital in Damaturu, after Umaru forced himself into her. Abdulkarim also said one Mohammed Jajere, 27, was on Dec 26, arrested by men of Gashua Divisional Police Headquarters for allegedly raping a young nursing mother at Garindalal area of Dagona Ward. The spokesman said Jajere raped the woman, who was recuperating from child birth, when he broke into her residence in the area with the intent to steal. He said all the cases were under going ‘discreet’ investigation in the command, assuring that the perpetrators would be prosecuted after investigations were completed. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that cases of alleged rape, especially against minors, have continued to soar in the state. Abdulkarim said in December only, nine cases of alleged rape involving minors were reported in various divisional stations in the state. He, however, said the command was combat ready to deal decisively with criminals in the state. The spokesman, therefore, appealed to citizens to always assist the police with credible information about crime to safeguard lives and property.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .