 [FILES] Taraba state  As Taraba State Police Command is trying to fish out those indicted in the murder of Ardo-Kola Council chairman, Salisu Dovo, another set of unidentified gunmen have killed two policemen in Karim-Lamido Council of the state. The policemen, according to The Guardian checks, were killed about 7 p.m. on Monday along the road to the council’s headquarters, when their patrol van broke down. While trying to fix the vehicle, the gunmen reportedly rounded them up, gunned down two, and made away with their guns. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), David Misal, who confirmed the report yesterday, said: “The police were attacked and killed while on their way to their duty post in Jen town.” According to the PPRO, the police will not rest till the gunmen are arrested and the state rid of crime. IN another development, Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State has reportedly denied the story credited to him that Boko Haram terrorists were regrouping on the Benue/Nasarawa border. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said the governor refuted the reports while speaking with him on the issue. Mohammed, who briefed the media on Monday in Abuja on the progress made by the Federal Government in the war against terrorism and banditry, said the governor claimed he was quoted out of context. “I was also concerned over this and I called the governor. But he said it was a case of being quoted out of context. He said he told the media that he went to see the President to wish him Happy New Year and to thank him for the forces he had sent to Nasarawa to dislodge the bandits trying to behave like Boko Haram, and for providing an alternative route between Nasarawa and Abuja,” the minister said. The governor reported made the statement while briefing State House correspondents after a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa. All attempts to get the governor’s affirmation through the Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Ibrahim Addra, or the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Dogo Shama, proved abortive. Some residents told The Guardian that the Mararaba Udege axis from where Boko Haram was operating had been besieged by troops. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .