 [FILES] Obaseki. PHOTO: TWITTER  The party also called on former National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, and Spokesman of the Edo APC Campaign Council, John Mayaki, to accept defeat in the September 2020 governorship poll and stop their attacks on Governor Obaseki’s administration. In a statement issued in Benin City yesterday, state Publicity Secretary of PDP, Chris Osa Nehikhare, said the Obaseki-led government was committed to the development of the state. He urged Oshiomhole to desist from further attacking Obaseki, adding: “It is unfortunate that we are compelled to once again respond to Oshiomhole’s criticisms. He has been so used to Edo State treasury and cannot bear the pain that he would never have access to the till with which the governor has continued to pursue development projects in the state.” He added that lack of critical thinking in Oshiomhole’s camp was consistent with its claims that the governor was taking the loan with the plan to pay back with the state’s 13 per cent crude oil derivation, but in the same line of thought, the writer alleged that there was no clear repayment plan. “Governor Obaseki, is not profligate like Oshiomhole and this is evident in his leadership style and the manner in which he has managed the state’s resources to the admiration of local and foreign partners, who continue to commend the prudent, transparent, and judicious allocation of resources in pursuit of sustainable development and economic advancement of Edo State,” Nehikhare added. Meanwhile, the APC accused the Obaseki-led government and the Edo PDP of chasing shadows instead of focusing on the critical issue bordering on Obaseki’s alleged N18b loan request. A statement issued by the Assistant State Publicity Secretary of APC, Victor Ofure Osehobo, stressed that the Obaseki administration must be accountable to the Edo people, insisting that the state government’s move to obtain another N18b loan would be tantamount to mortgaging the future of Edo State. “The issue this time around is clear.  Is the governor taking another N18b loan to mortgage the future of Edo State shortly after obtaining the N25b facility from the capital market? “It is, however, not surprising that the PDP is not knowledgeable about the governor and his style of administration and as such, is handicapped with the facts to respond to matters of this nature,” Osehobo said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .