Chairman, Lagos State House of Assembly Committee on Housing, Bisi Yusuf (left); Commissioner for Housing, Moruf Akinderu Fatai; Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Oniru of Iruland, Oba Abdul-Wasiu Omogbolahan Lawal; Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; Special Adviser to Governor on Housing, Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka and Deputy House Speaker, Wasiu Sanni Eshinlokun at the opening of LagosHOMS Lekki Phase II…yesterday Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, tasked all stakeholders and professionals in the built sector to come up with well thought-out solutions on how to reduce cost of building to make housing more affordable and accessible to the low income earners. The governor also invited genuine investors, particularly those with innovative technologies, to support the state government’s housing development efforts. Sanwo-Olu, who stated this at the commissioning of 132 apartments at the Iponri LagosHoms, which was renamed Babatunde Raji Fashola LagosHom, said: “We must be concerned with making a change that will improve the narrative of housing development in our own time. “The only clause is that investors must be ready to build homes that are of a high standard and affordable for the people.” The governor said the commitment of his administration to provision of good quality and affordable housing stemmed from the conviction that shelter is one of the notable indices of the quality of life of people. Besides, the governor has also commissioned the National Veterinary Research Institute, Lagos complex, built by the Lagos State Property Development Corporation. The Commissioner for Housing, Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, said no stone would be left unturned in ensuring that decent and affordable shelters are made available to all categories of people in the state. “We are not yet congratulating ourselves as the targets we have set are high and we know we are only discharging a mandate to the people. We, therefore, promise to continue to strive harder to gain and maintain your confidence all the way in terms of housing development. “We are harnessing all resources that are within our reach to ensure every resident have access to a decent shelter.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .