Inspector General of Police  Mr Mohammed Adamu PHOTO: Twitter The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammad Adamu, has inaugurated a new Area Command office in Shinkafi town,  Shinkafi Local Government Area of Zamfara, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, SP Muhammad Shehu, has said. In a statement issued to newsmen in Gusau, on Tuesday, Shehu said the new office, constructed by the Police Force Headquarters Abuja, was inaugurated by the state commissioner of police, Mr Abutu Yaro, on behalf of the IGP. The IGP said that the project was part of the determination and commitment of the Federal Government to provide a conducive working environment for police officers and men so that they could discharge their mandate of safeguarding public safety, peace and security. “The IGP urges officers and men of the area command to make judicious use of the office and the infrastructure provided therein. “He further enjoins the communities of the area and beyond, to appreciate the gesture by supporting the police and other security agencies in their commitment to overcome the security challenges bedevilling the state,”  Shehu quoted him as saying. The Sole Administrator of Shinkafi LGA, Alhaji Abubakar Galadima, was also quoted to have thanked the Nigeria police for constructing the new area command office, while assuring of the council’s continued support to security agencies in finding lasting peace in the state. Meanwhile, CP Yaro, who had earlier visited the Emirs of Zurmi and Shinkafi  as part of his familiarisation visit to traditional rulers and security stakeholders in the state, thanked the two emirate councils for working assiduously with the police and other security agencies to ensure peace and security in the area,
 “I am appealing for more support from you in this regard,” the CP said. During the visit, he addressed officers and men of Shinkafi Area Command,  Zurmi and Shinkafi Divisional Police Offices, as well as the Special Constabulary police recently recruited by the state government. Yaro warned them against unprofessional conduct and encouraged them to always be up to date while carrying out their duties. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .