 [FILES] Coalition of Oduduwa Elders have condemned Friday’s attack on Sarkin Fulani in Oyo State, Alhaji Salihu AbdulKadir and his family.<br />Photo: WLOX  The elders, who stated their opposition to the action, attributed it to some criminals, led by a secessionist, Sunday Adeyemo also known as Sunday Igboho, and said the development was inimical to the country’s unity, which they stand for. Expressing shock that such ugly development could happen in Yoruba land, which they noted had been at the forefront of a united Nigeria, the elders tasked security agencies to immediately swing into action to arrest the culprits, so they can face the wrath of the country’s law. In the statement signed in Abuja, yesterday, by the National Coordinator, Dr. Tunde Aremu, and National Secretary, Barr. (Mrs.) Folake Ajasin, respectively, the elders said the action did not represent the Yoruba people. The statement partly read: “We received with utmost shock and disbelief the burning down of the residence of Sarkin Fulani, Oyo State, his livestock and 11 cars, by some suspected criminals in Yoruba land, allegedly instigated by one Sunday Adeyemo, otherwise known as Igboho. This action is unacceptable to us. It is criminal, barbaric, and uncivilized, and we call for the immediate arrest and prosecution of Sunday Igboho and all the perpetrators of this dastardly and unwarranted act. “While we acknowledge the criminal activities of some suspected Fulani herdsmen in the state, we must state that the attack of the Sarkin Fulani Oyo is madness taken too far. “The Sarkin Fulani has lived in Oyo State for a very long time and has been known to be very peaceful. He has spoken publicly and privately against the criminal activities of some of their deviant youths and tasked security agencies to go after them. The Sarkin Fulani Oyo deserves commendation for his actions against the few criminals masquerading as herdsmen in Oyo and not this kind of evil and injustice meted on him by some criminals in our region… “We call on our Fulani and Northern brothers not to see this as an act of Yoruba people, but a clear act of criminality perpetrated by some misguided youths that will be brought to book in no time…”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .