Funke Akindele’s ‘Omo Ghetto (The Saga)’ Becomes Highest-Grossing Nigerian Film Funke Akindele-Bello and JJC Skillz’ directorial debut film “Omo Ghetto (The Saga)” has been named Nollywood’s highest-grossing movie of all time, breaking a four-year record held by Kemi Adetiba’s 2016 comedy movie “The Wedding Party“. The comedy film has grossed N468,036,300 after three straight weeks of maintaining the number one spot, according to a statement published by the Cinema Exhibitors Association of Nigeria (CEAN). It takes the spot of “The Wedding Party” which had been Nollywood’s Highest Grossing Movie with N453,000,000, while its sequel “The Wedding Party 2” comes third place with N433,197,377. This news comes as a surprise because of the pandemic which has crippled the entertainment industry for a long time. Kemi Adetiba who produced Wedding Party which was formerly the highest-grossing movie wrote: Just want to inform y’all that Funke Akindele is about to break the WEDDING PARTY 1 record… If she hasn’t broken it already. If you understand how INCREDIBLE this feat would be in a non-covid year, then you’ll understand even how more crazy it is in a covid year. I’m GINGERED! This has generated lots of comments from people who are happy that the talented actress and producer together with her husband are able to break records. A Twitter user with the username Perry said: Damn I’m so happy for Funke Akindele, ‘Omo Ghetto’ is now the highest grossing Nollywood movie of all time surpassing “The wedding party 1”. Well deserved. Another with the user name Humansarenotnice also wrote: Funke Akindele’s Omo ghetto the saga becomes the highest grossing movie of all time with N463 million naira. It surpassed 2016 Kemi Adetiba’s The wedding party N453+ million. Nigeria movie industry is really making it. Very good to see. Check other reactions below: ~ Bruh, Funke Akindele and her team did THE JOB! Highest grossing Nollywood film of all time?!!!!! The most amazing thing about this? Happened during PANDEMIC . This is just too good  . All happened in 1 month! — Diji Aderogba (@directordiji) January 26, 2021  That Funke Akindele’s “Omo Ghetto’ is the highest grossing Nollywood movie of ALL time is commendable. Moreover, that this record was broken in a pandemic makes one appreciate this feat more. Great stuff. — Bankole Akintunde Adebayo (@AdeBanqie) January 26, 2021  Naija film makers should learn from Funke Akindele how to have a star studded movie and still make sense. Omo Ghetto had popular actors and comedians but there was still a blend. Everyone acted their role well, even those that had just one or two scenes. It was a natural flow. — Chiki of Nations. (@rachelazuka) January 26, 2021  Just want to inform y’all that Funke Akindele is about to break the WEDDING PARTY 1 record… If she hasn’t broken it already.
If you understand how INCREDIBLE this feat would be in a non-covid year, then you’ll understand even how more crazy it is in a covid year. I’m GINGERED! — Kemi Adetiba (@kemiadetiba) January 19, 2021  Funke Akindele. That’s the tweet. — Editi Effiòng (@EditiEffiong) January 19, 2021 