Iconic Actor, Cicely Tyson, Dead At 96 The death of renowned actress Cicely Tyson Thursday drew an outpouring of emotional tributes from Hollywood and far beyond. The actress and cherished icon, who was first Oscar-nominated for 1972’s “Sounder” and 45 years later was honored with an honorary golden statuette for her body of work, died Thursday at age 96, her manager Larry Thompson confirmed according to a report by USA Today. With heavy heart, the family of Miss Cicely Tyson announces her peaceful transition this afternoon. At this time, please allow the family their privacy. Tyler Perry said the news of Tyson’s death brought him to his knees. He explained that he received the news from Oprah Winfrey while coincidentally watching Tyson’s 1974 television film “The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman” on a whim. Perry opened up about his close relationship with Tyson, saying she was the “grandmother I never had.” To think that she lived for 96 years and I got to be a part of the last 16 brings me great joy. She called me son. Well, today your son grieves your loss and will miss our long talks, your laughter from your belly, and your very presence. Always so regal, always so classy, always a lady, always a queen. Also, Oprah Winfrey posted a long tribute to her on social media, she wrote:   A post shared by Oprah (@oprah)  Viola Davies has also expressed her feelings in a post on social media:   A post shared by VIOLA DAVIS (@violadavis)  On Wednesday, Tyson had thanked Gorman on Twitter for her healing words at the presidential inauguration a week earlier: “@TheAmandaGorman, your words remind us that we will rise, rebuild, reconcile and recover. Thank you for your words and light.” Gorman said Tyson’s message made her emotional Thursday: “This legend’s second to last (tweet) was about me. I can’t stop crying. Thank you, thank you, thank you Cicely. You’ve given us black girls everything.” Cicely Tyson was an American actress and fashion model. In a career spanning more than seven decades, she became known for her portrayal of strong African-American women.