Akeredolu. Photo: TWITTER/ROTIMIAKEREDOLU Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) has called on Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, to rescind the quit notice he gave to criminal Fulani herders. The youths noted that Nigerian leaders should always promote the unity of the country, instead of pursuing agenda that would destabilise the country. AYCF leader, Yerima Shettima, stated yesterday: “The quit notice by the Governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, and subsequent attack and destruction of property in Oyo is disturbing. “Let it be known that the constitution of Nigeria guarantees every Nigerian to live in any part of this country and engage in any legitimate business of his or her choice. The governor of Ondo, being a learned person, is expected to know better.” According to him, AYCF will not support any group that engages in criminality. He added: “Such people should not be identified by their religion, tribe or ethnicity, but should be treated as criminals. The subsequent attack that followed the quit notice in Oyo is rather uncalled for and condemnable. The perpetrators must be brought to book and made to face the full wrath of the law. “AYCF supports constitutional ways of every state protecting her citizens, but quit notice should be out of it and must not be considered under any circumstance. Nigeria is an indivisible entity, and whatever has the tendency, like happenings in Ondo and Oyo, must be discouraged in the interest of peaceful coexistence and one Nigeria.” The northern youth group called on the government of Ondo and Oyo states to give peace a chance and rescind the quit notice, while those whose property were destroyed should be compensated accordingly. Shettima further stated: “We must guard against any act that will create a war-like situation in Nigeria. We must learn from mistakes of the past and avoid a repeat because the consequences may be unimaginable.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .