• NFF, LMC listed in Hall of Shame Two ex-Internationals, Daniel Amokachi and Joseph Yobo, were listed in the Hall of Fame Award for the year 2020 for their impacts in sports Development. The Minister of Youth and sports Development, Sunday Dare, also made the list. Dare was applauded for initiating the Sports Industry Thematic Group of the Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG) and the breakthrough in creating the Nigerian Sport Industry Policy. On his part, Amokachi was listed because of his appointment as Special Assistant to President Muhamadu Buhari. His appointment is expected to impact positively on sports Development. For Yobo, his appointment as Assistant National Team coach to Rohr is expected to restore confidence of home-based players and instill confidence in indigenous coaches. The award is a result of the Independent poll conducted by former athlete, Enefiok Udo-Obong.Others who made the list include President of the Badminton Federation of Nigeria Mr. Francis Orbirh, President of the Nigerian Basketball Federation Musa Kida, for outstanding performance as administrators. For successfully securing sponsorship for major athletics events in Lagos,  Ijebu Ode, Kaduna and  Remo, Nilayo  Sports Marketing  Company was adjudged the Marketing Company of the Year. This is in recognition of its role in not only organising major events, but securing sponsorship despite the economic crunch due to the outbreak of COVID- 19. For playing an ignoble role, and bringing sports to disrepute, former President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) was listed in the Hall of Shame. Also listed in the Hall of Shame is the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) for ‘rewarding’ the mediocrity of coach Gernot Rohr with a new contract, which even includes a protection fee of $2 million. The League Management Company (LMC) also fell in the Hall of Shame for being unable to organise a proper league, and for failing to make the Nigerian league more competitive on the continent. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .