The Professional Golfers Association of Nigeria (PGAN) has revealed that its pet developmental programme for the country’s top players (men and women), known as the Initial Professional Education Programme (IPE), will commence on February 2. The programme, which time table was circulated to concerned players and officials a few days ago, will lead to award of Diploma to the participants, the body said, adding: “It will enhance participants capability and capacity as PGA pros. More importantly, it will make their service delivery more professional and uplift their profile as PGA pro.” According to the PGAN, which met with the Confederation of Professional Golf (CPG) last Wednesday, the training opens an opportunity for every member to enhance his knowledge of the sport. It added: “The training is open to all interested members of the Association. No member will be allowed to join the training in the middle. Everyone must start together from the beginning because there will be many assignments, which will be submitted on-line. “The training will equally be a step for those who want to advance themselves in the profession to continue with ease.
“More importantly, it will put members of the PGA of Nigeria on the same pedestal with their counterpart in the developed countries.” The PGAN also disclosed that Mr. Jim van Heuven van Staereling of Holland has been appointed as “our Country Mentor for the programme, which is being sponsored by R&A and facilitated by the Confederation of Professional Golf (CPG). It added that it is an on-line course as a result of COVID-19 and the distance.” According to the PGAN, the IPE is different from the soon to begin Special Training Programme for lady golfers. It added that the training is expected to enhance coaching capacity and service delivery of Nigerian professionals. “It will also put them in tune with international standard in the discharge of their duties with the use of modern tools and technology as PGA pros.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .