Seyi Makinde APC tasks members on fresh registration 
Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has declared support and adoption of what it described as Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde’s “revolutionary leadership style.” In a statement issued by the state PDP Publicity Secretary, Taofik Gani, the party said Makinde’s leadership style was strategic and strong enough to deliver Lagos to the PDP in 2023. “Makinde’s public service revolution in Oyo State must, as a matter of necessity and expediency, be replicated in Lagos from 2023. And deliberately in our quest, we would, among other strategies, adopt Lagos Revolution Now,” the statement reads. The party commended Makinde for being exemplary in leadership and particularly prioritising the interest of Southwest in his service, just as it recognised former Deputy National Chairman, Chief Bode George for his relentless support for the PDP. “Everyone who has worked openly and behind the scene for us to arrive at this needed commitment is appreciated,” he said. The Lagos State PDP executive visited Makinde at the weekend where the Oyo governor restated his wish for the party to win Lagos in 2023 and admonished members to be more united, forget the past and show that the party could indeed win Lagos. MEANWHILE, a member of the state chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), Fouad Oki has charged members of party to avail themselves of the membership registration that would commence on January 25, 2021. Speaking at a media briefing in Lagos yesterday, Oki commended the Mai Mala-Buni-led National Caretaker Committee for its determination to reform the party through an authentic membership register contrary to the present one which he described as a personal document in custody of some individuals in the party. He said the new membership register, which would commence very soon would make APC more attractive and also afford it the opportunity to transform Nigeria to a better country. “There was the need for the party to embark on membership registration drive, so that it can have a comprehensive and reliable membership register. For example, the Lagos State chapter cannot boast of a reliable membership register, so there is the need to re-register members of the party,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .