The new Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Olafayo Amao, was born on September 14, 1965, at Enugu. He hails from Oshogbo in Osun State. Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Olafayo Amao  He had previously served as Trainee/Squadron Pilot, NAF Unit 99 ACTG Kainji (1993-2004), Instructor Pilot/Squadron Pilot, 301 FTS Kaduna (2004-2007), Air Assistance to Chief of Air Staff, Deputy Defence Adviser, Nigerian High Commission London, Assistant Director of Operation Defence Headquarters, Director of Policy and Plans, Nigerian Air Force. Until his appointment, Amao was the Commandant Armed Forces Resettlement Centre Lagos. Chief of Army Staff, Major General Attahiru Ibrahim  He was appointed to lead the offensive against Boko Haram in the North-East in May 2017. He was, however, redeployed by the then Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai after a string of attacks by the insurgents, including after giving him a deadline of 40 days in July of that year to deliver Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau dead or alive. Chief of Defence Staff, Major General LEO Irabor  He served as a Commander Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) of the Nigerian Army, Minna. Irabor also served as Chief of Training and Operations (CTOP), Defence Headquarters. He served as the theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole and headed the Multi-National Joint Task Force (MNJTF) as the Field Commander. He also served as the Chief of Staff to the Chief of Army Staff. He is a trained engineer. Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo  The senior officer has attended several military courses, which include; Sub-Technical course and Officers Long course both at NNS QUORRA. He also attended Junior Division 48/89 and Senior Course 26 both at AFCSC Jaji. Other courses attended include the National Defence Course at the South African National Defence College. Until his recent appointment as the CNS, he was the Director of Procurement at the Defence Space Administration. He holds a PGD in Transport Management and a Master’s degree in Transport Management (Logistics option), both from the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .