 (FILES) In this file photo taken on December 08, 2020 Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador stands next to the Mexican flag before his daily press conference at the Palacio Nacional in Mexico City. – Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who recovers from the coronavirus, will resume his regular activities in a few days, his interior minister said on January 29, 2021. (Photo by ALFREDO ESTRELLA / AFP)  “I still have Covid but the doctors already tell me that the critical phase is passing,” said the 67-year-old from the National Palace, where he has his office and official residence. “Now I present myself to you so that there are no rumors,” he added in the video posted on social media. “I’m fine although I still have to rest,” he said in a steady voice. Dressed in a suit, tie and overcoat but without a face mask — he is seen walking and talking for around 13 minutes through the National Palace. Lopez Obrador said he was working while in isolation, in particular on efforts to secure more vaccines for Mexico, which has one of the world’s highest Covid-19 death tolls at more than 156,000. The country began a mass immunization program on December 24 but like many nations it is struggling to acquire enough doses. Lopez Obrador said Mexico expected to receive six million doses from various manufacturers in February and 12 million in March, by when it hopes to have given a first shot to all older adults. The left-wing populist, who has a history of heart problems and hypertension, announced Sunday that he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 but had mild symptoms. He joins other world leaders who have caught the virus, including former US president Donald Trump, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and French President Emmanuel Macron. The health ministry reported on Wednesday that Lopez Obrador had experienced brief episodes of low-grade fever and a slight headache. The Mexican leader has refused to wear a mask except on rare occasions during the pandemic. He was accused by critics of downplaying the risks of the virus early in the crisis and of being slow to impose a lockdown. Both new coronavirus infections and deaths have set daily records this month, leaving hospitals overwhelmed, particularly in Mexico City, which has been in a state of maximum alert since mid-December.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .