5 Types Of Cuddles To Help Destress Work and life, in general, maybe stressful and you constantly look for ways to destress. You constantly look for activities that help to reduce stress and make life more fun and enjoyable. One activity that is extremely underrated and works for destressing is cuddling. Be it with your partner, your favorite four-legged friend, or a comfy body support pillow, or friend, cuddling is an awesome way to de-stress and create intimacy. There is more to cuddling than simply wrapping your arms around someone and holding tight. Cuddling is a love language all its own. There is no right or wrong way to cuddle but below are some that can help in your relationships and personally: The Spoon
Spooning is the ultimate cuddling position. Though, it can also be sexual. Anyone can be the “big spoon” when cuddling, but it’s often the larger or more dominant partner. When you are the “big spoon,” you wrap your arms around your partner or friend while you are both lying close on your side; your stomach rests against their back. When you are the “little spoon,” your partner wraps their arms around you and your back rests against their stomach. The Butt Cheek
In this position, you and your partner are facing opposite directions, but your butt cheeks and lower backs are touching. Knees are often bent, although you may stretch one leg and play footsie if you’re feeling playful. This position means you want to maintain a connection with your partner, but you value your freedom and sleep is high on your agenda. Sweetheart Cradle
This position is often used when you need to be nurtured. Your partner lies on their back and holds you while your head rests on their chest. It’s a comforting form of cuddling that creates feelings of trust and well-being. Lap Pillow
Laying your head in your partner’s lap is a playful position. It also displays trust, since it leaves your partner more vulnerable. This is a perfect position for binge-watching your fave Netflix show. Leg Hug
Like the “cheek-to-cheek,” this position is popular when sleep is your priority, but you still want physical contact. After you both find a comfortable position, you put one leg on top of your partner’s leg. Cuddling helps create a connection with you and your partner and makes communication easy.