Suspected herdsmen have allegedly kidnapped the pastor of a Pentecostal Church and three other persons in Ogwashi-Uku Community, Aniocha South Council of Delta State. The abduction reportedly took place around the Comprehensive Secondary School Ogwashi-Uku, as sources hinted that one of the victims, Chuks Odili, was in company of the pastor and two other members of the Church when the abductors seized them. “We were told that the pastor and the three other members of the church went to the site where they were erecting a makeshift building when the gunmen rounded them up. “They bailed them up with a pump action gun, they were armed and led them into the bush. From what we also learnt, a member of thrift society to which Odili belongs” spoke with the suspected kidnappers with his (Odili’s) telephone, but a man with Fulani accent answered the call and demanded N10m ransom for their release. “When the caller pleaded with the abductors with a promise to pay something lesser than N10m, the kidnappers switched off the phone and no further contact has been made,” a member of the community said. MEANWHILE, the body of a 60-year-old hunter, Godwin Elumeze, who had gone for hunting on Sunday night, was found in a forest at Ogwashi-Uku. The Guardian learnt that his body was found behind the Delta State Fire Service Station in Ogwashi-Uku with flies already milling around his remains. It was also learnt that the deceased went for hunting when the suspected herdsmen, who had been terrorising the community allegedly killed him and made away with his gun. Son of the deceased, said: “My father had gone for his usual hunting in the evening of Sunday and when he did not return, I went in search of him the following morning in the forest where he normally goes for hunting. “I found my father’s body seated with his face bent downward in between his legs. Flies were already hovering around his remains and I came back to the town to inform the police.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP, Onome Onovughagbogaya, confirmed the incidents, saying: “Investigation is still ongoing on the hunter’s case, while the police are making effort to establish contact with the kidnappers.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .