Woman Shows Off Baby With Stepson After Affair With Him A weight-loss social media influencer who married her stepson after “seducing” her husband’s son has proudly showed him their baby daughter for the first time. Marina Balmasheva, 35, had posted of her pride to her half a million-plus Russian social media followers from her maternity hospital, however, her new husband was not with her at the birth of her “princess” or immediately afterwards. A video shows Vladimir ‘’Vova’ Shavyrin, now 21, arriving at the hospital in Krasnodar with flowers to meet his daughter Olga who arrived at just over 8lbs according to a report by The Mirror. A nurse hands him the warmly wrapped bundle and he kisses the girl. Marina was previously married to Vladimir’s father Alexey Shavyrin, 45, who now cares alone for their five adopted children. He accused her of seducing his son when he came home on holiday from university. She told her followers that her boob job has made it difficult to breastfeed the baby who is now fed by bottle. Before giving birth, Marina had explained how she went through a succession of plastic surgery treatments to make herself attractive to her now spouse who she calls “the most charming blue-eyes in the world”. After getting home, she told how her new husband was trying to help look after the baby, not always successfully. Vova told me to go to bed and that he would put her to sleep. This is when the fun started, and lasted more than two hours. I cried watching him clumsily but confidently pushing the pram. She talked about how just before giving birth she was scolded by a doctor for having put on too much weight during pregnancy – meaning the medic could not hear the baby’s heartbeat. She scolded me for a big stomach, my weight was big and it interfered. This is when I got really scared. After revealing her relationship with her former stepson, she said: So many people tell me to use makeup – make lashes, and curl my pubic hair – because of my young husband. Marina now says her previous marriage was “not living but pretending”. She told her followers: Did I have regrets that I destroyed the family? Both yes and no. What [do I have] today? I am married. I moved to a bigger city. I love and I am loved.