 Milverton Avenue, Abia. Photo: TWITTER/GOVERNORIKPEAZU  Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu has explained why he rebuilt Milverton Road in Aba, along with adjoining Eziukwu Road, Ojike Lane, and their connector, Chisco Link. He disclosed this, yesterday, during the commissioning of the four roads by Prelate and Moderator of Presbyterian Church of Nigeria, His Eminence, Nzie Nsi Eke. Ikpeazu said despite their economic importance, these four roads remained in a state of disrepair for more than 20 years. The governor warned residents against blocking drainages with waste, saying the government would deal decisively with culprits. Meanwhile, the governor, yesterday, approved the immediate dissolution of the State Executive Council. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ururuaja Onyebuchi Emememka, directed those affected to hand over all government property in their possession, together with their handover notes, to their respective Permanent Secretaries. He said that the governor expressed his deep appreciation to them for their services to the people of Abia State and wished them well in their next endeavours. The governor also directed the State Environmental Protection Agency (ASEPA) and Traffic And Indiscipline Management Agency Of Abia State (TIMAAS) to set up a waste management task force to check ongoing unathorised business activities in the area. Eke urged him not to relent in building more roads, even as he prayed God to bless him and all those that use the roads. The Commissioner for Information, Chief John Okiyi-Kalu said: “ What Governor Ikpeazu is doing is to fix socio-economic important roads in Aba, as a way of injecting life into  Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and industries. He has rehabilitated over nine roads since December and works are in progress in 52 others. Many businesses that could not survive years of negative effects of the bad roads, have been and are being revived…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .