President Donald Trump arrived Wednesday at his resort home in Mar-a-Lago, Florida, after leaving the White House for the last time, AFP observed. As Joe Biden's inauguration ceremony was underway in Washington, an event Trump snubbed, he flew to Palm Beach aboard Air Force One and then traveled in a motorcade to his home. Hundreds of fans lined the road waving Trump campaign flags, US flags, and one that had an insulting word for Biden. The motorcade slowed down to a crawl, apparently so that Trump could engage with them. WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA - JANUARY 20: Outgoing US President Donald Trump waves to supporters lined along on the route to his Mar-a-Lago estate on January 20, 2021 in West Palm Beach, Florida. Trump, the first president in more than 150 years to refuse to attend his successor's inauguration, is expected to spend the final minutes of his presidency at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida.   Michael Reaves/Getty Images/AFP  "Welcome Home," said another. "Trump 2024," said yet another. "We love you," a group chanted. WEST PALM BEACH, FLORIDA - JANUARY 20: Outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump exit Air Force One at the Palm Beach International Airport on the way to Mar-a-Lago Club on January 20, 2020 in West Palm Beach, Florida. Trump left Washington, DC on the last day of his administration before Joe Biden was sworn-in as the 46th president of the United States.   Noam Galai/Getty Images/AFP  At a farewell ceremony earlier at Joint Base Andrews outside Washington, Trump said it had been an "incredible four years" and promising to be "back in some form." "We've accomplished so much together," he said. "I will always fight for you. The 74-year-old Trump has hinted at running for president again in 2024 but faces a trial in the Senate over his role in the January 6 storming of the US Capitol by his supporters and a potential ban on holding office in the future.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .