 Coach Tony Bolus (right) passes instruction to his players in a previous encounter. He is expected to lead the charge against the Flying Antelopes in today’s NPFL Match day five encounter  The encounter, a Match day five fixture of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), will see the Olukoya Boys trying to replicate at home the away win they recorded against the Flying Antelopes in Enugu last season. The Coal City boys, however, came back to play a draw in the reverse fixture in Lagos. Currently seventh on the log, MFM FC have seven points from four matches played, winning two matches, losing one and drawing one. Rangers on the other hand are second on the league table with three wins, one defeat out of four games, which is enough to give the Oriental team the needed confidence going into the clash. Speaking on the epic battle, Coach Bolus said there was nothing so special about today’s meeting, adding that he expected his boys to approach the game like every other NPFL’s pairing, which he said his team would claim the three maximum points at stake. “We have a team and anyone who wants to achieve something great in life must be positive. We have a positive mind going into tomorrow’s game and I am positive that we are going to win that match against Enugu Rangers. “By the time we achieve the three points, we would have taken the second position on the NPFL table. This we know and have at the back of our mind because we also do the calculation just as everyone does to serve as a motivation for the game. “We have a good record against Rangers, last season we’re able to defeat them on their own ground in Enugu. Last season out of a possible six points, we got four against them. We do not see Rangers as a threat to our ambition, just like every other team we play against in any fixture of the NPFL. “I am optimistic we’re going to win in tomorrow’s match, though we’ll give them their due respect, which is no big deal. For now, there are no injury worries, but certainly, our fans should expect a good game and the three maximum points by God’s grace,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .