Ayra Starr Ep Ayra Starr, the newest signing to Mavin Records, has released her self-titled debut EP. On the five-track project, Ayra effortlessly showcases her soulful vocals and diverse musical influences, sonically running the gamut of Afro-pop, R&B, trap and alté. The EP’s lead single and opening track ‘Away’ is a mid-tempo and rhythmic number re-defining the standard break-up song. Channelling and reclaiming Ayra’s pain and experience as one of power and strength. Speaking on the track, Ayra said: “I freestyled half of ‘Away’ at a time I was feeling down. It was like therapy. Singing the song out loud was like freeing myself from my burden. ‘Away’ is not just a heartbreak song, it’s a song that empowers you to stand up to that thing or person that is causing you sadness.” The EP’s lead single is accompanied by an enthralling music video directed by Kewa Oni & Seun Opabisi. Stream the EP below: Born and raised between Lagos and Cotonou, music has always been the centre of this teen star’s universe. Raised on a musical diet of 2Face, Angelique Kidjo, Shakira, Tope Alabi, Rihanna, Beyoncé, and Sia, Ayra grew up singing and writing songs with her younger brother. She had started working in the beauty industry by the age of 14, regularly modelling for several make-up brands in West Africa. Ayra was discovered by acclaimed record executive/producer Don Jazzy After posting a series of covers on Instagram and was subsequently signed to Mavin Records. Having spearheaded the careers of luminaries Wande Coal, D’Banj, Tiwa Savage and Rema, Don Jazzy and Mavin Records are set to launch Ayra as West Africa’s first female global teen superstar. Speaking on why 18-year old Ayra is tipped to continue their winning streak, Don Jazzy, Mavin Records President says: “I didn’t need to see more than one Instagram video to know that Ayra is a star. I’m super excited for the world to hear her! With my experience in the business, I am certain she is going to be a global superstar geared up for a long run.”