 Wizkid  The event, which is dedicated to African youth, showcases the best of African talent, culture, and music to a global audience across 180 countries. This year’s edition of the awards, which is virtual, will air locally on MTV Base (DStv Channel 322) and MTV Africa (DStv Channel 130) on February 20. Speaking about the event, Senior Vice President and General Manager ViacomCBS Networks Africa, Monde Twala said: “The MAMAs are a global spotlight on African music and artists, and this lineup of incredible talent speaks to the tremendous power of music on our continent.” “This year’s show is dedicated to the youth of Africa, and we are committed to amplifying social change through music and culture and to elevating youth voices across our platforms,” he added. Tanzanian artiste, Diamond Platnumz, who is one of the leading nominees for the MAMA Kampala 2021 showdown, with five nods is returning to the MAMA stage after his energetic 2016 performance. Also, South African Hip-Hop sensation, Nasty C, who is nominated in the ‘Best Hip-Hop’ category, will be making a return to the MAMA stage on February 20. Meanwhile, Uganda songstress and first-time nominee, Sheebah Karungi, has scored two nods in the ‘Best Female’ and ‘Best Ugandan Act’ categories, just as Côte d’Ivoire artiste and Hip-Hop award contender, Suspect 95, will also take to the virtual stage. Kenya’s Khaligraph Jones and Cape Verde’s Soraia Ramos will debut the MAMA stage, while São Tomé and Principe’s Calema, who is running for the ‘Song of the Year’ have four MAMA nominations in total. Grammy award-winning global sensation, disc jockey (DJ) and record executive, DJ Khaled, who is reputed for his Hip-Hop and R&B hit anthems, will be the international co-host for this year’s event. According to MTV Africa, more performers will be announced in the next few days, as well as finalists for the ‘MAMA Generation Change Award’, which will recognise youth change-makers on the continent. This year’s award will be held in partnership with the Uganda Tourism Board. The event is poised to showcase the country and Africa’s music as well as sounds to the world. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .