Again, gunmen suspected to bandits have killed seven persons in an attack on three communities in Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State. According to sources, the incident occurred late Thursday night, with the gunmen who were in their numbers, operating into the wee hours of yesterday morning. Communities attacked include Unguwar Dan Kaya, Matseri and Unguwar Hayaki, leaving many injured while animals were carted away in the attack. At Unguwar Dan Kaya, five people were killed while two others were shot dead in Matseri. Dozens of persons were wounded and harassed at Unguwar Hayaki. This incident is coming after a similar attack by gunmen on Unguwa Sarki, Sheme, in the council area where 10 people lost their lives, dozens injured, and several animals rustled. A spokesperson for the police command in the state, Gambo Isah was yet to respond to inquiries made on the incident. In a related development, Governor Aminu Masari has called on private individuals to contribute their quota in the fight against banditry by coming forward with suggestions on dealing the problem. Masari said the insecurity in the state was worrying and every good suggestion that would help address it is welcome. He said this when a delegation of Katsina state security committee initiative, led by the former speaker of the defunct Kaduna state House of Assembly, Mamman Danmusa paid him a visit at government house. Masari said banditry and criminality has inflicted serious damage on the social and economic activities of the state that would take years to repair. He said as a result of banditry, many people have died, while several others have been displaced. He said thousands of farmers have been denied access to their farms due to incessant attacks by bandits, which has now led to large deficits in food and cash crop productions. Danmusa stated that they resolved to organise themselves in order to assist the government to help the state out of the situation it has found itself.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .