• Presidency condoles with Catholics over Ochiagha’s demise President Muhammadu Buhari has said that the former military administrator of Benue and Kano states, Col. Aminu Kontagora (rtd.), lived a life of sacrifice and dedication to humanity. Buhari, who condoled with the Kontagora family, urged the deceased’s friends and associates to accept the will of God and find solace in the ex-MILAD’s good works. In a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, yesterday, the President affirmed that Kontagora’s experience, wisdom and cherished political support would be sorely missed, praying God to forgive his sins and accept his soul in eternity. He described the deceased as a career military officer, who served in many leadership positions and formations across the country, making remarkable impact, hence the Benue State Arts Theatre Complex was named after him. ALSO, the demise of Kontagora threw Benue into mourning. Consequently, Governor Samuel Ortom declared today a work-free day and urged that flags be flown half-mast in honour of the deceased. Also, former governor, Gabriel Suswam, commiserated with the Kontagora family, describing any honour done the deceased by Ortom as well deserved, as he left enduring legacies. Ortom, in his tribute message, described the death of Kontagora as a great loss to the country, stressing that his footprints in the state remained indelible. According to him, Benue is the deceased’s second home, as he remained in touch with the state in his lifetime. Kontagora was the MILAD of Benue from August 1996 to August 1998. IN the same vein, Buhari has commiserated with the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria (CBCN) and the entire Catholic community over the demise of the Bishop Emeritus, Catholic Diocese of Orlu, Imo State, Dr. Gregory Ochiagha. In a statement signed his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President particularly sympathised with Catholics in Orlu where the late cleric served as pioneer bishop for about four years and endeared himself to his parishioners. Noting that Ochiagha’s contributions to the spiritual growth of the Catholic faithful during his decades of service will not be forgotten, he prayed God to console the Catholic community, and grant rest to the soul of the departed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .