Africa Oil & Power (AOP) (www.AfricaOilandPower.com) launched its Africa Energy Series: Africa Renewables 2021 digital report, dedicated exclusively to renewable development and investment within the African energy sector; Africa requires approximately $70 billion in annual investment in renewables until 2030 to implement a clean energy transition; AOP will co-host the Africa Renewables Forum as part of the fifth edition of its flagship Africa Oil & Power Conference & Exhibition in Cape Town (October 5-7, 2021).  Africa Oil & Power (AOP) has launched its Africa Energy Series: Africa Renewables 2021 digital report, dedicated exclusively to outlining pan-African investment opportunities in clean energy development, on the back of global initiatives that call for an increasingly decarbonized energy sector. With renewables accounting for 52% of total capacity expansion in Africa in 2020, the downloadable report identifies the government targets, large-scale projects and strategic opportunities shaping renewable development across the continent. In addition to providing insight into Africa’s renewable potential – as well as the socioeconomic benefits initiated by increased renewable penetration in the market – the report provides a pathway for public and private sector alike to reduce associated risk, mobilize financial instruments, build capacity and establish strong regulatory frameworks to facilitate clean energy investment. Successful case studies include the development of hydropower in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including the Inga III Dam project; the role of private sector participation through the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement program in South Africa; transformative regional opportunities via the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam; and the emerging use of blue and green hydrogen in South Africa and Botswana. Recognizing the potential of renewables in alleviating energy poverty and spurring economic development continent-wide, AOP will host the Africa Renewables Forum, co-hosted as part of the fifth edition of its flagship Africa Oil & Power Conference & Exhibition on October 5-7, 2021, in Cape Town. Aligned with the vision of South Africa’s Department of Mineral Resources and Energy and continental partners, the Forum will provide insight into the scale of Africa’s renewable potential, under the conference theme, “Invest without Boundaries.” To download the AES: Africa Renewables 2021 report, please click here (https://bit.ly/36jDgnK) Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Oil & Power Conference. To get in touch regarding sponsorship and exhibition opportunities at the AOP 2021 Conference & Exhibition, please contact the sales team at sales@africaoilandpower.com and to learn more about the event visit www.AOP2021.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .