Some eminent citizens, including presidential aspirant in the 2019 general elections, Dr. Obiageli Ezekwesili, Executive Director, Fix Politics, Anthony Ubani and the Chief Executive Officer, Alero Ayida-Otobo, yesterday stressed the need for public trust in political leadership. They argued that decline in corruption in the public sector would lead to sound economic development, that will reduce poverty and inequality. The trio spoke at a virtual forum organised by School of Politics, Policy and Governance (SPPG) tagged “Preparing Nigeria’s future leaders today; Developing a new generation of disruptive thinking values-based political class.” Ezekwesili, who is a co-convener of Bring Back Our Girls advocacy group, said it was time for Nigeria to welcome a new order of political class that is focused and members are of unquestionable character. She stated: “Nigerians need a politic that leads to good governance. Sound policies, strong institutions and effective and efficient priority of investment in public goods and services for private sector emergence is the engine of economy.” Ubani stated that for a country to enjoy functional democracy and good governance that is vital for economic development, it must be anchored on what he described as three triangular pillars of democracy: an empowered and engaged electorate who know their rights and responsibilities as citizens; a value-based political class and reformed constitutional, electoral and political environment. “To translate these lofty thoughts to action, the idea of engendering an unconventional School of Politics, Policy and Governance will serve as a massive base and pipeline producing a new and disruptive thinking political class who will listen and serve the new class of citizens who know their rights.” Alero stated: “We envision a Nigeria with competent and responsible public leadership firmly based on ethical principles and dedicated to serving the common good for the benefit of all. “Our mission is to educate present and future leaders dedicated to the good of the nation and ready to serve as stewards of the wellbeing of all Nigerians.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .