About nine thousand new National Identification Number (NIN) enrolment centres are expected to commence operation this week, The Guardian has learnt. The centres are expected to provide a fillip to the enrolment of Nigerians by National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) for NIN, and subsequent linking of the number with their Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) cards. The Head of Corporate Communications, NIMC, Kayode Adegoke, who confirmed the development to The Guardian, yesterday, disclosed that about 50 million Nigerians now have a national identification number each. According to Adegoke, about 200 organisations, states, and institutions licensed by the Federal Government to enroll Nigerians for NIN are to start work immediately. “Most of them are starting this week. All they need to do is to get the systems and start enrolment. Basically, like what we are doing at NIMC, they are supposed to enroll to support FG in the process. At present, there are over 1000 centres. The coming of the new centres will increase the number to about 10,000 for easier access to enrolment. The centres are to go live this week. There is no more time, the six weeks handed to us is almost here, but we are sure that we can do it. With the understanding of Nigerians, support of the telcos, and other institutions, we shall deliver,” he said. The NIMC spokesman noted that among the 200 licensees are Lagos, Borno, Oyo and Osun state to set up centres for enrolment. Other institutions such as the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), and the National Population Commission (NPC) will also enrol citizens for the number. On the challenges of enrolling those in the hinterland, Adegoke expressed hope that with the support of the telcos, which have spread to the remote part of the country, “that should not be a problem.” He revealed that one of the telcos last week secured a large number of equipment to be deployed for the enrolment, beginning from this week. Adegoke also hinted that three other operators were in the process of securing equipment for the project. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .