 [files] Nigeria’s Information Minister Lai Mohammed speaks during a news conference on protests in Abuja, Nigeria November 19, 2020. REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde  Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, and Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, made the disclosure when they spoke to journalists at a press conference in Abuja. Mohammed assured the nation that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is fully aware of its responsibility to protect life and property of all Nigerians, insisting government would not relent in learning and adapting to changing threats to national security and civic wellbeing. Mohammed noted that the armed forces, police and other security and intelligence agencies are ramping up their efforts to enhance security of life and property across the country, “and the results are beginning to show.” “Some 52 criminal elements were arrested, with scores of arms, ammunition and equipment recovered. Troops have also rescued a total of 17 kidnapped victims across the country. In addition, a total of 684,856 barrels of stolen crude oil, 1,724,000 litres of stolen Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) and 500,000 litres of Dual Purpose Kerosene (DPK) have been recovered. “Other achievements include a total of 1,184 of 25kg bags of Yaraliva Nitrabor fertilizer impounded by troops, with many criminal elements incapacitated and their camps destroyed,” the minister further disclosed. He said even though some of the troops paid the supreme price in the course of the operations, the security and intelligence forces had consistently exhibited gallantry and resilience in the various operations. Aregbesola, who urged support for government’s efforts at tackling insecurity, said bandits, kidnappers and terrorists would not be spared. According to him, government is adopting technology in its Forward Operation Bases (FoBs) to monitor and enhance border security and his ministry is working hard for a more effective border management and security. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .