Lagos records 551,380 passengers in six month
Domestic air travel has returned to its low traffic profile of the COVID-19 era after the December rush at major airports across the country.
 
The Guardian observed that traffic across major routes has dropped by 50 per cent, with attendant impacts on load factors and airlines’ frequencies.
 
This is coming as the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) hinted that the Murtala Muhammad Airport (MMA), Lagos, recorded a total of 551,380 passenger traffic, with a total of 6, 261 aircraft movements from July to December last year.
 
The Chief Operating Officer (COO) of one of the carriers, yesterday, said the latest drop in traffic was expected in the New Year and in the middle of a pandemic.  Aderibigbe explained that safety, security and comfort of passengers remained their priority, especially while complying with COVID-19 protocols, adding that adamant passengers were forced to comply.
 
He said some high-profile passengers remained their greatest challenge, as some of them refused to cooperate with the protocols on the ground. He, however, noted that sanity had returned to almost every port of entry as the COVID-19 realities made people sit up, observing the safety protocols.
 
The terminal manager revealed that all the facilities put in place following the outbreak of the pandemic were being maintained and with the second wave, the compliance team had been going round to ensure nobody is left out. Aderibigbe noted that the management had been holding meetings with stakeholders and would continue to do that especially with the second wave of the pandemic
 
He said both terminal and the airport had been dislodged of unwanted visitors to avoid bottleneck on the access roads, even as arriving passengers now board their vehicles at the terminal carpark. Ticketing agents in the terminal have been sent out and online patronage encouraged, which has reduced touting at Lagos airport.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .