A major outrage has greeted the continuous disappearance of the immediate past Commissioner for Trade and Commerce in Anambra State, Dr. Christian Madubuko, who was allegedly kidnapped in the state 14 days ago. Wife of the former commissioner, Mrs. Chioma Madubuko, family members and Nigerians in Australia, yesterday, raised the alarm over his whereabouts, stressing that they were yet to receive any information about him since he was allegedly abducted. Madubuko, a Canadian-trained expert, resigned as commissioner on December 11, last year, alleging threat to his life and sabotage against the administration of Governor Willie Obiano in the state.   He had reportedly asked the governor “to take charge of his administration.” He was reportedly kidnapped a few days after his resignation and his whereabouts have remained unknown since then. Lamenting the development yesterday, his wife, Chioma, stated that she had become a physiological wreck, as she had not heard any news about her husband. She said that every effort to trace him had become futile. Mrs. Madubuko, who was flanked by leaders and members of the Nigerian community in Australia, appealed to the Federal Government and Anambra State government to join forces and ensure the release of her husband. Also speaking, Mr. Uche Okorie, stated that the continuous disappearance of Madubuko had become a “national embarrassment,” stressing that it was disappointing that he could go missing in the last weeks without a trace with the level of security in the state. “When we hear stories like this that somebody who was with us here and left to serve his fatherland is missing so unceremoniously, and with  no consequences whatsoever, on that level we think it is something that is unacceptable and that is why we are lending our voice to that of Mrs. Madubuko to say this is not only a human rights issue, it is also one of national embarrassment and we ask the government to remedy the situation,” he said. In the same vein, leader of Igbo Community in Australia, Dr. Uche Menakaya, stated that their concern at the moment was to secure the release of Madubuko and appealed to relevant agencies of government to do the needful. He said that they were satisfied with the contributions of Madubuko while serving the administration of Obiano in Anambra State. Meanwhile, his community, Anaku, had on Tuesday staged a peaceful protest over the development and called on the state government to wade in and ensure he was rescued alive. The Anambra State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Haruna Mohammed, had also said that the Command was investigating the sudden disappearance of the former commissioner.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .