Operation Sahel Sanity has neutralised 10 suspected bandits and inflicted injuries on many during gunfire exchange in Batsari and Faskari councils of Katsina State. It, however, lost one soldier while two sustained injuries during one of the encounters. The acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Brig-Gen. Bernard Onyeuku, made this known in a statement he issued to newsmen yesterday, which outlined some of the operation’s January activities. A total of 220 bandits were reportedly neutralised by the operation last year, while six military personnel lost their lives, including two.
Onyeuku said the Batsari incident occurred on January 2, while that of Faskari was on January 10. He added that three bandits’ collaborators were apprehended during the onslaught. His words: “On January 2, 2021, based on credible intelligence about armed bandits crossing Garin Inu in Batsari heading towards Bugaje in Jibiya Council, both in Katsina State, troops deployed at Batsari swiftly mobilised and laid ambush for the bandits at Garin Garus. “While at the ambush, the gallant troops engaged the bandits with overwhelming fire power and neutralised five, while others escaped with varying degrees of injuries as indicated by traces of blood along their escape routes.” According to him, further exploitation of the area by the gallant troops led to the recovery of three AK-47 rifles and two magazines loaded with 18 rounds of 7.62 mm special ammunition. He added: “On January 10, 2021, troops deployed at Sabon Layi, while clearing bandits’ enclaves around Maigora general area in Faskari, came in contact with armed bandits at Unguwar Rimi leading to a fierce gun battle. “The troops were swiftly reinforced by another team from Faskari and supported by Helicopter Gunship delivering a lethal blow to the criminals, forcing the bandits to withdraw in disarray into the forest.” Troops deployed at Dan Ali village, acting on reliable information, on January 3, arrested a suspected bandits’ collaborator named Ya’u Tukur at Sabon Gida village in Kankara, The Guardian gathered. During preliminary investigations, the suspect reportedly confessed to be working for a notorious gang, which had been masterminding nefarious crimes, including kidnapping for ransom in various places. “Troops are on the trail of other members of the notorious gang,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .