 3rd mainland bridge  Motorists plying the bridge would have to exercise more restraint this weekend to enable the completion of the bridge on or before the stipulated date of February 22, 2021.Some of the road users have expressed their readiness to bear the pain to enable the government deliver a good job. A commercial driver, who plies Iyana Ipaja to Ajah, said motorists have to understand what the government was doing, saying he has adjusted. “There is nothing we can do and we have to adapt to the present condition. The repairs have prolonged our journey and we have no option,” he said. Another driver plying Oshodi to Obalende said: “We are now compelled to change our route, passing through stadium to Lagos. “It is not convenient, but we have to now comply with the directive.  It is affecting our business negatively and we are enduring, hoping that come February, the 3rd Mainland Bridge would be opened.” Speaking with The Guardian on the pace of work, the Federal Controller of Works in Lagos, Mr. Olukayode Popoola, gave the hint of the proposed total closure. According to Popoola, the step was being taken with a view to opening the bridge on or before the set date. “By this weekend, Friday January 29, 2021, we are doing total closure of Third Mainland bridge to allow us cast three number expansion joints and it will be opened on Monday at 12 mid-night. “The reason for the total closure is to prevent vibration so that the concrete will not be injured. We want the concrete to set properly. Therefore, the two lanes will be closed to traffic. “This is to enable us finish and complete all the work in preparation to opening the entire length of the bridge on or before February 22, 2021,” he said.	Poppoola, in his previous comments, had given the reason for the partial closure and assured that the work would be completed for motorists to start plying the two sides of the bridge from February 22, 2021. It was also held that the General Manager, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Olajide Oduyoye, debunked the notion that the bridge was totally closed to motorists.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .