 Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) Abike Dabiri-Erewa  The association, in a statement by Engr Gbenga Omoniya, said Coalition of Oduduwa Descendants’ position was laughable, as it was comical, not only because the organisers exhibited deeply flawed thought process in advancing whatever grievances they may have with the commission. “In calling for the Commission’s dissolution or restructure, the coalition’s National Coordinator, Lekan Ekundayo, said: ‘Hate campaigns (are ongoing because) some disgruntled elements abroad (are) endorsing negative publicity about Nigeria’. As a result of this ‘negative publicity’ by these faceless Nigerians, ‘enemies of the Nigerian state like Boko Haram, insurgents and other economic saboteurs…continue to wreak havoc on the country’ because, in Ekundayo’s warped mind like that of a simpleton, “NiDCOM has become the refinery for the processing of crude, scathing critics and all forms of negativism against Nigeria’. “Perhaps Ekundayo and the coalition he represents simply lacks the presence of mind to understand that in a free world, even in Nigeria, people can never share the same opinion about the situation of their country and how it is being administered.  Pray thee, what has NiDCOM got to do with the independent criticisms of some Nigerians in the Diaspora? What also has Boko Haram and other insurgencies that currently bedevil the country got to do with these unsubstantiated criticisms? “Would Boko Haram, banditry, kidnappings and other nefarious activities of these degenerates suddenly evaporate were this ‘negative publicity’ to have stopped? How has NiDCOM become the refinery for the processing of crude, scathing critics and all forms of negativism against Nigeria? Where’s the connecting thread between NiDCOM and the reasons advanced by Ekundayo and his coalition for the Commission’s dissolution? “While we may never know why Lekan Ekundayo has chosen to go down this perfidious road about NiDCOM, they should advance intelligent arguments next time, if they’re truly desirous of having the Commission scrapped or restructured. The coalition’s pointless characterisation of NiDCOM is dead on arrival, as it is an attempt at crying wolf when there’s absolutely none,” said Omoniya. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .