 Sally  An Alumna of Middlesex University where she studied International Business, Sally, who is also a part of the Young African Leaders Initiative (YALI), through her social media platforms, has become a household name for using her voice and resources where it matters. She shares her inspiring journey, especially how her mum’s death changed her perception of life in this exclusive interview with Esther Ijewere. Childhood Influence
I loved to do things for people; I loved to help the poor. I started helping when I was in primary school; I would give the less privileged my old school items and even share my lunch and money with them. So, I had that path right from my childhood. My growing up wasn’t the best; I lost my Mum when I was 5years old. This made me grow up very fast and opened me up to challenges that a 5-year old shouldn’t be going through. My Mum was a great woman; she was a teacher, she was my best friend, she was my everything. Her death was a very painful experience for my siblings and myself. Things changed when my wonderful stepmom came into the home; I am who I am today because of this woman. She made sure that I grew up in the way of the Lord; she taught me almost everything that I know today. I owe my success to her. Inspiration Behind Isolycia Foundation
The Isolycia Foundation was inspired by my love for education, especially at the elementary level. I believe that every child should be in school, particularly at that tender age. So, the Isolycia Foundation focuses on education for children in rural areas. We also sensitise parents on the need to send their children to school. I formed the name from my late mum’s name and my step mum’s name. The Journey So Far
It’s been humbling so far. Every challenge I face teaches me a lesson, so I’m grateful. Supporting The Less Privileged And Using My Platform For Social Good
I love the fact that I wake up fulfilled doing what I love to do. I love the fact that I’m able to touch lives and inspire people. I get messages everyday from people saying how much I inspire and motivate them. This is enough impact for me, knowing that I am touching the world one day at a time. The Impact Of Being A YALI Fellow
It has helped through learning by taking their courses. I’m a professional at what I do because of the available resources YALI provided. Coordinating Giveaway Platform Online
Giveaway platform, just like the name implies, is a platform where I give out things to people; this is part of my Social responsibility for being a media personality. I also help promote small businesses through this platform; I open them up to their potential clients. Positive And Negative Side Of Being A Social Media Influencer
The positive side is impacting lives and making money; the negative side is sometimes you get misunderstood and you get attacked. You experience bullying, hate and all sorts. But I have learnt to ignore and focus on the positives and those who love me. Challenges Of My Work
It could be tasking financially because, I do not depend on anyone; I do everything from my pocket. Also, managing my time can be challenging; I have so much to do but little time. Three Women Who Inspire Me To Be Better 
HE Toyin Saraki; HE Bisi Fayemi, and the most recent, Vice President of America, Kamala Harris. These women inspire me in different ways; their passion, their success, the change they bring in their various fields inspire me. Nuggets On The Power Of Community Service
* Community service connects you to others. It allows you to connect to your community and make it a better place.
* Community service increases your social and relationship skills
* Community service also increases your self-confidence. It provides a healthy boost to your self-confidence, self-esteem, and life satisfaction. You are doing good for others and the community, which provides a natural sense of accomplishment. I’m going to leave a quote by Denzel Washington – “At the end of the day it’s not about what you have or even what you’ve accomplished… it’s about who you’ve lifted up, who you’ve made better. It’s about what you’ve given back.” Being a Woman of Rubies
I’m a woman of rubies because I stay positive; I inspire and impact lives. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .