Makinde Activities at the Oyo State Ministry of Women’s Affairs and Social Inclusion, Local Government Service Commission, Oyo State Signage and Advertisement Agency (OYSAA), and Water Corporation of Oyo State, Secretariat, Ibadan, were on Monday paralyzed, as workers of the Water Corporation, who embarked on an indefinite strike locked up the Water Building to press home their demands. Workers of the Water Corporation under the aegis of Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE), embarked on the strike following the failure of the government to pay the six months deductions owed them by the Governor Seyi Makinde led-administration.
Recall that the union had on January 20, 2021, gave Makinde a 72-hour ultimatum to pay the outstanding deductions, address shortage of workers and other issues at the Corporation. Specifically, the union demanded a prompt payment of outstanding deductions, safety of life and property of the Water Corporation, an increment in monthly subvention, supply of chemicals to the Corporation, recruitment of workers and appointment of substantive General Manager for the organisation. The letter reads in part: “I bring to Your Excellency fraternal greetings from the state leadership of the above named union and to inform Your Excellency that after a series of meetings with the management of Water Corporation and Government representatives without finding lasting solutions to our demands, the union is left with no other option than to issue this letter on the above subject matter. Aside outstanding deductions, the union also demanded the payment of check-up bonus, leave bonus, car loan deductions, and housing loan deduction. Others are increment in monthly subvention, availability of chemicals, recruitment of more workers for the Corporation and the appointment of a substantive General Manager. Following the expiration of the 72 hours ultimatum, the union commenced the strike, locking up the Water Building, which houses several other state agencies, while also blocking the feeder roads leading to the building. Leading the protest, the AUPCTRE Secretary, who doubles as the State’s NLC Secretary, Ibrahim Mohamed, said the strike would be indefinite, adding that the union had exploited all options to resolve the matter to no avail. He said: “It is an indefinite strike. We have exploited all available options but the government is not forthcoming. The government failed to respond to our calls. They owe us arrears of up to seven months.” Speaking on locking up of the building, which houses other government departments and agencies, Mohamed said: “It is the Water Building, and it belongs to us. The Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Inclusion, Local Government Service Commission, Oyo State Signage and Advertisement Agency (OYSAA) are all tenants.” At the time of filing this report, no government official had addressed them.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .