Wike Governor Nyesom Wike has assured the people of Rivers State that the Federal Government’s N78 billion refund would be channeled into more development projects. He made the promise at the inauguration of Isiopko Internal Roads Phase 2 in Ikwerre Local Government Area, performed by the 2019 Vice Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Obi, yesterday. Wike said the money would be deployed in providing more critical projects across the state to further drive the efforts at enhancing the socio-economic life of the people. “Even if it is my second tenure, I will continue to work relentlessly for the interest of Rivers State, and improve its stakes until it becomes what it should be. “Rivers people, the Federal Government has refunded us the money. I have not touched it yet and it is in the bank. I will use it for project execution. “I kept it to tell those who are making noise to know that I am going to work till the last day in office. I will continue to work for the interest of our people. I’m not resting. “They need to know that I will make sure what is supposed to be done for the people of Rivers State is done. I will persist until we have improved and changed Rivers State and bring it back to what it is supposed to be,” the governor said. Wike noted that with his level of performance in office, it would be difficult for any other political party to take Rivers State away from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The governor said he had laid a good foundation of leadership by completing all the projects he inherited from his predecessor, and would complete all the projects that he initiated so that his successor would have a smooth sail in governance to initiate his projects and pursue them. “No matter the tactics they deploy, no party can take Rivers State away from PDP. They have to convince the people why they need their support. It is already known, they have nothing to offer. We have something to offer and we have offered it to the people. They are angry that we are opening projects. Our business as a party is to make the other people to have serious high blood pressure.” Obi lamented that the Federal Government keeps borrowing in the guise of using it for capital project. He challenged the central government to show the capital projects on which such borrowed money has been expended. “Accountability in government is the most critical yardstick to determine good governance and to build the trust of the people. For recruitment into governance, competence, capacity, and visible performance like we are seeing here today should be embraced. “The reason Nigeria is not working today is that people have been recruited based on sentiment and that has to stop because the country is collapsing,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .