 kaduna  The bandits were said to have stormed the village and started shooting sporadically. It was gathered that most residents of the community whose houses were razed have fled their homes and presently taking refuge at Barkallahu village in Igabi Council. Nura Haruna, who lost two of his sons and two brothers in the attack, called on Kaduna State Government to come to their rescue. Narrating how the incident happened to reporters when the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, visited the displaced persons at Barrkalahu, Haruna described the incident as an unwarranted attack on the innocent locals. He, however, called on security agencies and the state government to fish out the perpetrators and bring them to justice. On his part, Aruwan, while commiserating with the victims, appealled to shun any form of reprisals, assuring that government would do everything within its powers to arrest the masterminds of the attack. Meanwhile, Governor Nasir El-Rufai has congratulated new Chief of Army Staff, Maj-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, on his new appointment. The governor, in his congratulatory message in Kaduna yesterday, lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing Attahiru to lead the Nigerian Army, following his hard work, commitment, dedication and outstanding professionalism. El-Rufai stated his belief that under Attahiru’s leadership, the Nigerian Army would be taken to even greater levels of proficiency and responsiveness in the discharge of its constitutional duties, saying the people and government of Kaduna State were proud of the new Army chief and were optimistic that he would succeed and take the Army to greater heights. He also congratulated the newly appointed Chief of Defence Staff, Maj-Gen. Lucky Irabor, Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo and Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshall Isiaka Amao and wished them the highest success in their new endeavours. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .