PHOTO: Johannes Eisele/AFP via Getty Images Director-General, Cross River State Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Dr. Janet Ekpenyong, has debunked all forms of disbeliefs, misconceptions or myths about the COVID-19 vaccine. In an interview with journalists yesterday, Ekpenyong urged Cross River people to ignore such misconceptions, as the vaccine would soon be introduced in the country, even as she called on the Federal Government to expedite action on the availability of the vaccine for Nigerians. She said sensitisation and creation of demand for the COVID-19 vaccine were considered the most effective remedy to checkmate the spread of the pandemic and its mortality rate. Ekpenyong noted that, just like every other vaccine, the COVID-19 vaccine would help boost the immunity and fight complications that may arise from contacts with infected persons, as the world awaits a permanent treatment and prophylaxis for the new strain of the disease. She noted that with Cross River State already ranked among top performing states on immunisation across the country, its people were assured of a viable and potent vaccine, which would meet all international requirements and certified by the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), National Agency for Food, Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) and other regulatory bodies. She also charged the Federal Government to intensify information dissemination on the COVID-19 vaccine, while states should intensify sensitisation and awareness creation to help check fake news and unverified myths about the vaccine. While calling on Cross River people to embrace the vaccine and ensure that they receive the vaccine when available, Ekpenyong appealed to rumour mongers to stop spreading false rumour about the vaccine, insisting that observe all safety protocols. She also called on traditional, religious leaders and other influencers in society to support the state government in ensuring that Cross River people take the vaccine when they arrive to help contain its spread in the state. “With a total confirmed cases of 108,943 and 1420 deaths as at Saturday, January 16, 2021, the need to boost immunity of Nigerians, especially the elderly and others on essential duties cannot be over-emphasised. “This has necessitated the purchase of 100,000 vaccines for the first batch, which is expected in the country between January ending and early February for commencement of immunisation to commence,” she added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .