• Arrest 10 suspects including five pregnant women
• Rescues five new born babies, others
The Police in Anambra State have rescued five newly born babies, three other children in a house suspected to be used as a baby factory, in Oba, Idemili South Council of the state. The Guardian gathered that the building located opposite Nnamdi Azikiwe Teaching Hospital Oba, was raided following information that teenage girls were being impregnated and the babies sold out by human traffickers. Confirming the incident in a statement yesterday, the State Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Haruna Mohammed, said 10 suspects including five pregnant women have been  arrested. He said during the operation five newly born babies and three other children were rescued as well. He disclosed that police operatives attached to the SIB and Area Command, Oraifite, coordinated by the Area Commander, ACP Afolabi Wilfred, raided the house of one Melvina Uju Uba, a female at Oba and arrested the following suspects at about 7.00am: Edna Nnadi (37), Ujunwa Nweke (25),
Izuchukwu Uba ( 24), Chinaza Ibeh (19), Peace Okon Effion (25), Gift Collins (20), Chimkaso Kingsley (25), Happiness Monday (18), Chioma Okonkwo (25) and Uchechukwu Nwankwo(18). “The rescued children will be handed over to the state’s Ministry of Social Welfare, Children’s and Women’s Affairs for proper care, while effort is being intensified to apprehend other accomplices in order to bring them to justice,” Mohammed noted. In another development, Police operatives attached to Ozubulu Police Station, yesterday, arrested one Chukwuemeka Obijofa,  28, of Ofufe Nza village in Ekwusigo Council of Anambra State for allegedly killing his wife and one child. According to police report, Obijofa allegedly ran amok in circumstances yet to be ascertained and attacked his wife,  Chisom Chukwuemeka, (26) and his child, named Amanda Chukwuemaka (4 ) of same address, with a shovel on their heads. Police also said the suspect equally used same object on a vigilante, who tried to rescue the victims. The Ananbra state PPRO, CSP Haruna Mohammed, said police detectives had visited the scene and rushed victims to the joint hospital, Ozubulu, for medical attention where the two victims were certified dead by a medical doctor on arrival.	He, however, said that the injured vigilante was responding to treatment, while the corpses of the victims were deposited at the hospital’s morgue for autopsy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .