Crisis looms in the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adamawa State chapter, over plans by some party chieftains to hijack the incoming executive committee of the party. Former Governor Muhammad Bindow said yesterday at the party secretariat in Yola that some chieftains of the party were going around with the list of secretly-selected names for the new executive of the party. According to Bindow, who was visiting the secretariat for the first time since he left office, based on the APC constitution, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, is the leader of the party in Adamawa while he is the second in command. “Those that are going about with list of secretly-selected names of people to form the incoming executive should forget it. I cannot allow such crude and undemocratic practice in Adamawa APC, unless they are working for other parties to win 2023,” he said. Vowing to fight for the soul of his party with the last drop of his blood, Bindow noted that only justice could give APC victory in 2023. The former governor explained that he stayed away from the state after leaving office to avoid clash with the new governor. His words: “You can’t have two governors in one state. There is nothing like former governor; once you are governor, you are governor forever. So my younger brother, Ahmadu Fintiri, is in office. I should stay away for him to work for our people.” Bindow was displeased with the party secretary, Mr. Wafarniyi Theman, who is also nursing governorship ambition, and apologised to those he offended during his tenure as governor. In his remarks, chairman of the party, Ibrahim Bilai, asked God to return Bindow as governor, claiming that his performance remained the best since the state’s creation. Bilai assured the governor that the party would not tolerate any act that could disrupt the unity of the party, as “APC is battle-ready to confront any person that challenges the party members. “He who wants to fight us, we are ready. If they have guns, we have axes enough to confront them.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .