The Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) has warned Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) to desist from its plot to infiltrate the South West security network, Amotekun. Speaking against the backdrop of Miyetti Allah’s demand to be included, along with other groups, in Amotekun, OPC alleged that MACBAN created the greatest security challenge in Nigeria; hence not justified in demanding such. It argued that the demand was a ploy to weaken the security outfit and put the region in perpetual security threat. The Publicity Secretary of OPC, Mr. Yinka Oguntimehin, described the call as an attempt to overrun the security architecture of the region. “We will never allow Miyetti Allah to set our region on fire. We cannot afford to see the South West face the kind of security challenges the North East and North West face daily. Our group will never fold its arms and see the South West being overrun by herdsmen and marauders. That is why we are warning leaders of the group to desist from their sinister motives and leave Amotekun alone in the region,” he stated. OPC flayed the leader of Oyo State chapter of the Fulani herders, Ibrahim Jiji, for making such unrealistic request, maintaining that the herders lacked the credibility to call for its inclusion into Amotekun. It also urged the Federal Government to beam searchlight on Jiji for making such request, adding that no Yoruba group had ever called for inclusion into Northern security outfits like Hisbah police or the Middle Belt security outfit. “What does these Fulani herders want from us? Do they want to weaken or polarise our security outfit? The call is irrational and unjust, and we will resist any attempt to soil the name of Amotekun. “Operation Amotekun is a child of circumstance; it is the South West’s arrangement to curb the spate of insecurity in the region, and since its inauguration in Oyo, Ondo and Ekiti states, the response has been encouraging. So, we need to support and encourage them in their quest to curb insecurity in the South West,” said OPC. It, however, charged all Yoruba traditional rulers to support Amotekun in their respective domains. OPC stressed: “The efforts of the Oyo chapter of Amotekun to secure the state is yielding positive results.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .