Fiery Enugu Catholic priest and Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministries, Enugu, Nigeria (AMEN), Rev Fr. Ejike Mbaka, has prophesied the abrupt end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, if urgent actions were not taken. He said Buhari must rise to save his administration or face an extinction he never anticipated. Mbaka, who spoke at the 2020 edition of his December 31 Crossover Night service, advised the Federal Government to make swift moves to create jobs to prevent Nigerian youths from embarking on agitations that may consume his administration. In an event tagged, “Cornucopia of New Miracles from God”, he also chided National Assembly (NASS) members for taking the nation for a ride. Describing them as “kidnappers”, he said unless they hastened move to genuinely start taking care of the youths, they (youths) “will rise and end the current political system”. Mbaka said Nigerians were going through horrible conditions and cautioned state governors, ministers and political office holders to do the needful to avoid future calamity. He said: “The Holy Spirit of God asked me to warn government of the day to be very careful; to change policies and take care of the youths without politicising their condition. “That the government should rise and urgently create jobs and innovate opportunities that would benefit the nation’s youths, as they have suffered so much… “Should the government fail to do so as soon as possible, the time is coming when youths will rise against government, and any attempt to stop them will end the government. “I can see a year ahead; it is not specific whether or not it is in 2021 that this will happen, but it is within a time in the time of life, that the anger of God will befall many people in the political circle, because they have looted so much and disgraced this nation enough…” He accused politicians of “packing and packing the nation’s commonwealth, refusing to create wealth, but that they now turned around to tag the youths kidnappers, criminals, hoodlums and so on,” stressing that “God is angry with past and present leaders for turning Nigerian youths into beggars in other countries, due to overwhelming hardship in the nation.” He urged them to find ways to right their wrongs, warning, “The situation in the country portends wickedness, wicked ruling in high places, in the name of legislators. They are the real kidnappers, and the anger of God is upon them…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .