Investing in African Mining (Mining Indaba) (www.MiningIndaba.com), part of Hyve Group Plc announced the exceptional line-up of keynote speakers for Mining Indaba Virtual, which will take place 2-3 February 2021.  The organisers are extremely delighted to confirm four heads of state will be delivering keynote addresses, including H.E. Cyril Ramaphosa, President of South Africa, H.E. Julius Maada Bio, President of Sierra Leone, H.E. Mokgweetsi Masisi, President of Botswana and H.E. Félix Tshisekedi, President of Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) discussing the opportunity for international investment and much more for their countries.  Joining the heads of state on the expanding list of speakers are CEOs from major mining companies, government leaders and senior representatives from across the global mining industry. Tackling topics from reigniting mining capital: ESG investing in a Covid-recovery world, harnessing technology and automation to grow economies to opportunities for battery metals in the global reboot, green metals, PGMs and global decarbonisation and more.  This year’s virtual event has been designed to reflect the priorities of helping to rebuild and shape the future of the industry. Spread over two half days, it will boast a highly exceptional line-up of industry speakers. “Mining Indaba has been built on 27 years of industry support, and this year, although virtual, we want to help to continue to support the industry during such a turbulent year.  The programme truly reflects the industry’s needs and will support the industry for the year ahead.” Tom Quinn, Head of Content, Mining Indaba and Africa Oil Week.  The line-up of speakers joining heads of state includes: Geared towards building ‘Resilience and Regrowth: Adopting the New Mindset for African Mining’ to help rebuild and shape the future of the industry. This free to attend online conference is now CPD certified meaning attendance counts towards professional development, featuring high-level content including pioneering insights, multi-stakeholder strategic conversations, presidential addresses and more.  Registration for the Mining Indaba Virtual has now opened, the event is free to attend. For more information about the programme, visit the website here (https://bit.ly/3qB01v5). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Investing in African Mining Indaba. Media Contact:
On behalf of Investing in African Mining Indaba
Amy Neville
Email: amy.neville@hyve.group About Investing in African Mining Indaba:
Investing in African Mining Indaba (www.MiningIndaba.com) is solely dedicated to the successful capitalisation, development and widening perspective of the African mining industry. Bringing together the world’s industry giants to tomorrow’s barrier-breaking disruptors from across the spectrum. It’s the place where multi-million deals are done, and life-long partnerships are discovered. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .