Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos The Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe has said Nigerian universities would be better developed, if opportunities and networks within alumni associations were explored. Speaking at a leadership retreat for the newly elected executives of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) Alumni Association, Lagos Chapter, he stated that the alumni owns the university, because they have passed through the school and have become ambassadors of the institution. According to Ogundipe: “UNILAG is a cosmopolitan university and as an alumnus of the institution, the recognition you get is enormous. The UNILAG Alumni in US and Canada are doing very well. By the grace of God, I will try to visit all the branches in Nigeria. I will give full support to the leaders.” On how to raise funds, he said the alumni may not only support the institution with physical cash, as there are people that have shares that could give part to the university; there are also people that have houses in Lagos and may give part of their rent to the school and some may also give percentages of interest from their companies to the university. He added that alumni could also pick up the bills of indigent students, assuring the executives that the ranking of the university would improve soon. Guest speaker and Sustainability consultant, Ini Abimbola said it is imperative for the new executive to be transparent and accountable. “You cannot be transparent if you are not accountable,” she said. Ambimbola stated that they must think about building legacies, reputation and good corporate governance value in their engagement. The President, UNILAG Alumni worldwide, John Momoh said for the new executive to succeed, they must provide leadership that inspires people around them. The Chairman, UNILAG Alumni Association, Lagos Chapter, Dr. Benjamin Oluwatosin Olowojebutu, said the retreat was organised to boost the capacity of the newly elected executives. He promised to be a servant leader that would be transparent and accountable.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .