Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello on Wednesday said the former Nigeria aviation minister, Femi Fani-Kayode has joined the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). “I have the mandate to sanitize, mobilize and educate and woo Nigerians into the party, irrespective of their background,” Bello told journalists after revalidating his APC membership. “Our Brother Chief Femi Fani-Kayode has joined our party in good faith. He is joining our party to add his own positive energy and make a contribution to ensure that APC is a party to beat.” Bello’s disclosure comes less than a day after it was rumoured that Fani-Kayode has dumped the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the APC. Fani-Kayode met separately, then together, with Governors Yahaya Bello of Kogi State and Malam Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State who chairs the caretaker committee of the APC on registration and revalidation of party members at a Guest House in Wuse, Abuja earlier this week. Many believe the meeting could signal part of the process for the former minister, a staunch critic of President Muhammadu Buhari to return to the ruling party. But Fani-Kayode in a Twitter thread said the meeting was beyond politics and “it amazes me that some people should feel that it is wrong for me to sit with other leaders in the country to discuss issues which touch and concern the national cohesion, future and stability of our country. However, Bello said the former minister has now returned to the ruling party. Although Fani-Kayode is yet to refute or confirm the claim by the Kogi State governor. “Remember that Fani-Kayode was a foundation member of this great party but due to misunderstanding, he decided to port elsewhere,” Bello said. “Now he has decided to join our party (APC). “He (Fani-Kayode) approached me and by the mandate given to me by the party, I must not segregate or discriminate against any individual even if he has a different opinion about the governing party before and he has seen the light, the reality and the need to join the All Progressives Party. “You are free to join if you feel otherwise and you cannot understand what is happening before and now you understand and want to join we will welcome you with our arms wide open. So Chief Femi Fani Kayode you are welcome to our party, come and make your own contribution.” The director general of the APC’s governors’ forum Dr Salihu Lukman is one of many APC members who opposed Fani-Kayode’s defection from the PDP to APC, saying the return of Fani-Kayode to the party was undesirable. “Mr. Fani-Kayode has fabricated stories, distorted, insulted and damaged information about our party and our leaders,” Lukman said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .