January was amazing with thrilling films such as Bridgerton, Lupin and lots more. February, however, will be more entertaining with the amazing films set to be released. In the next four weeks, we can look forward to brand new offerings starring Zendaya, Rosamund Pike, and John David Washington, plus the final installment in the To All The Boys I’ve Loved Before trilogy, just in time for Valentine’s Day. Here’s what we’ve got to look forward to in February on Netflix: Malcolm & Marie  This is coming out on February 5. Netflix says: Sam Levinson teams up with Zendaya and John David Washington for an achingly romantic drama in which a filmmaker and his girlfriend return home following a celebratory movie premiere as he awaits what’s sure to be an imminent critical and financial success. The evening suddenly takes a turn as revelations about their relationships begin to surface, testing the strength of their love. To all the Boys: Always and Forever  This is set to be released on February 12. Netflix says: As Lara Jean Covey prepares for the end of high school and the start of adulthood, a pair of life-changing trips lead her to reimagine what life with her family, friends, and Peter will look like after graduation. Namaste Wahala   This is coming out on February 14. Netflix says: An interracial romance hits humorous and heartwrenching hiccups as the couple’s parents fight tooth and nail against their relationship. I Care A lot   This is to be released on February 19. Netflix says: Poised with sharklike self-assurance, Marla Grayson (Rosamund Pike) is a professional, court-appointed guardian for dozens of elderly wards whose assets she seizes and cunningly bilks through dubious but legal means. It’s a well-oiled racket that Marla and her business partner and lover Fran use with brutal efficiency on their latest “cherry,” Jennifer Peterson (Dianne Wiest) — a wealthy retiree with no living heirs or family. But when their mark turns out to have an equally shady secret of her own and connections to a volatile gangster, Marla is forced to level up in a game only predators can play, one that’s neither fair nor square.