The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Igbon Police Division in Surulere Local Council of Oyo State, Mr. Ayodeji Adepoju, was reported to have shot and injured an operative of Oyo State Security Network Agency, Amotekun Corps, on Friday. It was gathered that the DPO had ordered the arrest of two Amotekun Corps for apprehending herdsmen, whose cattle destroyed their crops in Gambari. The aggrieved farmer was said to have reported the case to Amotekun Corps and the herdsmen were arrested. Some of the herdsmen were said to have reported the case to the DPO, who ordered an arrest of the two Amotekun operatives, Jenyo and Olatunji Mayowa. The DPO said Amotekun was not set up to arrest herdsmen, but to go after armed robbers. Amotekun’s Unit Commander,  Mr. Araoye Amoo, was said to have gone to the police station with his men to secure their release. He was discussing with the station guard, when the DPO stormed out of his office and reportedly collected a gun from a policeman to shoot one of the Amotekun operatives in the leg. The DPO repeatedly claimed that he overheard the corps saying they were coming to kill him. Amoo said one of the Amotekun operatives, who escaped from the scene, was pursued and disarmed. Araoye said the police checked and discovered the gun, which was collected from Amotekun was not even loaded. The Amotekun Commandant in the state, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (rtd.), confirmed the incident. Olayanju said the injured Amotekun official was taken to Ladoke Akintola University of Technology  (LAUTECH) Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Olugbenga Fadeyi, said in a statement the Fulani reported that some Amotekun operatives wanted to set their settlement on fire, and some policemen who were deployed there brought them to the station. He was, however, silent on shooting Amotekun operatives. Fadeyi said: “It was a report from the Secretary of Miyetti Allah, one, Oroji Allah ‘m’ at Orile Igbon Police Station that some Amotekun operatives planned to set ablaze Fulani ‘Igaa’. A team of policemen was sent to the scene and brought them to the station for amicable settlement by the DPO.” “Not too long after, Amotekun operatives, numbering about 30, invaded the station and conducted themselves in an unruly and riotous manner. Three of them were arrested. The Area Commander Ogbomoso is handling the matter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .