Detained 14 ex-gov’s aides regain freedom Former Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, yesterday, accused Governor Hope Uzodimma of destroying his property. In a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media, Sam Onwuemeodo, Okorocha alleged that the governor detailed thugs and policemen to pull down the fence and gate to his radio station, Reach FM, in Owerri, which was built 25 years ago. “We also want to inform the public that, on Tuesday, February 23, 2021, at about 2:00 p.m., a group of armed thugs and men in mobile police uniform with some government officials stormed the Reach FM radio station in Owerri, in a commando manner, pulled down the fence and the gate of the station. “They did that after they had chased away the workers of the station.“Imo State Commissioner for Lands, Chief Enyinnaya Onuegbu, had said that the fence and the gate were erected on the road. “The building housing the Reach FM radio was acquired by Senator Rochas Okorocha about 25 years ago. And subsequent administrations, both military and civilian, had never raised any issue about the property where the radio station is located,” the statement said. But in a swift reaction, Uzodimma said that in line with the recommendations of the Judicial Panel of Enquiry’s Whitepaper on Lands and Related Matters, the fence and gate were on the road, leading to its demolition. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Public Enlightenment, Eze Ugochukwu, the governor said the action was in order. Meanwhile, the state government has disclosed that it has recovered six vehicles and one big generator (property of the Imo Transport Company) from a former Commissioner for Transport during Okorocha’s administration. IN another development, 14 aides of Okorocha who were arrested, detained and arraigned over their involvement in the alleged invasion of property sealed by the state government have regained freedom after meeting the bail conditions. While 13 of them were released on Tuesday from the Correctional Centre in Owerri, Okorocha’s ADC, Eberendu Chimechefulam, was set free on Monday. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .