 Senate leader, Lawan. Photo: TWITTER/DRAHMADLAWAN  The request was contained in a letter addressed to President of Senate, Ahmad Lawan, which was read at plenary yesterday. In the letter, Buhari said: “In accordance to section 171, sub-section 1, 2 C and Section 4 of 1999 Constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, I have the honour to forward for confirmation by the Senate, the underlisted as non-career ambassadors designate. “The non -career ambassadors designate include Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin (rtd) (Ekiti); Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai (rtd), (Borno); Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas (rtd), Cross River); Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar (rtd) Bauchi and  Air Vice Marshal Mohammed S Usman (rtd) (Kano).” In another letter addressed to Lawan, Buhari also sought confirmation of appointment of chief of defence staff and service chiefs for the armed forces. Mr. President, in the letter, said the request was in compliance with the provision of Section 18 subsection (1) of the Armed Forces Act CAP, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. “I hereby forward for confirmation by the Senate the appointment of the underlisted officers as Chief of Defence Staff, Maj. Gen Lucky Irabor; Chief of Army Staff, Maj. Gen Ibrahim Attahiru; Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshall Isiaka Amao and Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Auwal Gambo.” Senate also received request for confirmation of appointments of Mr. Adolphus Aghughu as Auditor-General of the Federation; Mr. Victor Chinemerem Murakor as Chairman of Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC); Mr. Larry Obinna Chukwu as commissioner representing South-East at Nigerian Law Reform Commission and
Wakari Bukar as commissioner representing Yobe, Borno and Bauchi states at Federal Civil Service Commission. After notifying the lawmakers of Buhari’s requests, Senate adjourned plenary to February 10, following demise of a member of House of Representatives, Ossy Prestige, who represented Aba North and South Federal Constituency. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .