 At the Presidential Villa today, the President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency Muhammadu Buhari<br />, with the Honourable Minister Youth and Sports @SundayDareSD<br />, confer President’s NYSC Honours Award on 110 Ex-Corps Members of the 2018/2019 Service Years. Photo; TWITTER,NIGERIAGOV  President Muhammadu Buhari has offered automatic employment to 110 former corps members in the federal civil service and scholarship for the pursuit of post-graduate studies up to the doctoral level in any university in Nigeria. Buhari, who spoke, yesterday, at the virtual 2018/2019 President’s National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) honours award ceremony held at the State House Conference Centre, Abuja also announced cash rewards for the former corps members. He directed the relevant government agencies to ensure timely implementation of all the incentives for the award recipients, urging the honourees to sustain the patriotic zeal that earned them the award. ‘’It is noteworthy that the young men and women being honoured to have excelled in the four cardinal programmes of the scheme, namely: orientation course, primary assignment, community development service and winding-up/passing-out, which formed the basis of assessment for the honours award. ‘’On behalf of the government and the good people of Nigeria, I heartily congratulate those honoured on standing out from their peers in order to merit the honour being bestowed upon them. “You have proved yourselves worthy ambassadors of your respective families and the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). I am very proud of you and confident that the award shall spur you to greater service to the nation and humanity,’’ he said. IN another development, Justice Adenike Akinpelu of the Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin, yesterday, convicted a serving corps member, Sam Abiola and one Adebiyi Sodiq. They were arraigned for offences bordering on attempted cheating and love scam by the Ilorin Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Justice Akinpelu, in her judgment, sentenced the accused persons to six months imprisonment with an option of N100,000 fine each. The judge ordered that the convicts’ phones and laptops used as instruments to perpetrate the crime be forfeited to the Federal Government. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .