 Edo State Governor,  Mr. Godwin Obaseki (left)handing over keys of the newly built Edo State High  Court Complex to the Edo State Chief Judge, Hon. Justice Esther, in Benin City.  The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has revealed plans to collaborate with the state judiciary on the establishment of a revenue court to boost Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) in the state. Obaseki disclosed this after handing over the keys of the newly constructed High Court Complex to the Chief Judge of Edo State, Justice Esther Edigin.
 
He said: “We are transparent with finances and with your support, we are establishing revenue courts in re-tooling our revenue collecting system to expand and increase significantly our IGR in Edo State. This will enable us to invest more money into the judiciary and other sectors.  “I am here to handover the keys of this property to the judiciary for use. This is an opportunity to unveil our rationale for what we are doing. Without the judiciary, we can’t have democracy. We need the judiciary, which is important in sustaining our democracy. “We are hoping to build new courts in Auchi and Ekpoma. I felt sad during my electioneering after visiting 192 wards across the state and seeing what is called magistrate courts in some communities. They are not befitting of such names,” he said. In her welcome address, the Chief Judge of Edo State, Justice Esther Edigin, expressed appreciation to the governor for the infrastructural development carried out in the judiciary, reiterating that the judiciary is the bastion of Nigeria’s democracy and the last hope of the proverbial common man. “A strong and truly independent judiciary is in the best interest of all of us. It is indeed the best legacy we can all bequeath to our children and generation yet unborn,” she said.
 
The Chief Judge also expressed appreciation to the governor for connecting the entire Edo State High Court complex to the Ossiomo Independent Power Plant (IPP) grid for uninterrupted power supply.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .