• Seizes 46.8kg Illicit Drugs In Adamawa
The Joint Task Force (JTF) Operation Unit of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a drug baron, Mr. Chidi Olife, who escaped arrest for unlawful importation of 5.250kg of heroin concealed in books from Karachi, Pakistan to Lagos since June 2010. Olife’s arrest in Lagos came just as operatives of the anti-drug agency in Adamawa State nabbed an illicit drug dealer, Rabiu Imam on Friday, with Tramadol tablet 225mg weighing 45.4kg. The Adamawa State Commander of the NDLEA, Idris Bello, while briefing the Chairman/Chief Executive of the agency, Brig. General Mohammed Buba Marwa (rtd) yesterday, said other illicit drugs recovered from Imam include, Tramadol capsules 100mg weighing 550gs and Diazepam tablets 850gs. Bello, who said the drug trafficker was arrested in a house at Unguwan Madina, Mubi North Council, Adamawa State, put the estimated street value of the seized drugs at over N50m. A statement by the agency giving the details of Olife’s arrest said following vital intelligence on the drug source, flight details, date and place of arrival, weight and mode of concealment, name, phone number and address of the recipient of the consignment, a planned controlled delivery operation was coordinated and led by the Commander NDLEA’s JTF, DCN Adeniyi Olumuyiwa. The agency said the careful execution of the operation led to the arrest of Oladimeji Oladotun and Alhaji Danjuma Idris, while processing the documents for clearing the consignment. Both were the clearing agents hired by Olife, owner of the drug. “Upon being arrested, Idris, one of the clearing agents was used to effect the arrest of Oke Ningo, who Chidi contacted to receive the consignment from the agents on his behalf. Unfortunately, he escaped arrest at the point of receiving the drug, as he suspected the person with the clearing agent to be an NDLEA officer. “Subsequently, the house of Chidi Olife was traced to a street in Ajao Estate area of Lagos. But before the JTF team could get there, he had escaped with his household, due to the failed arrest of Oke Ningo. “The JTF team placed surveillance on him. Their perseverance yielded fruit 10 years after, as Chidi Olife was eventually arrested and is currently cooling his heels in NDLEA’s custody, while a manhunt for Oke Ningo, his criminal associate continues,” the agency said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .