The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has secured a commitment from Dangote Group to pay compensation to students of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko (AAUA), Ondo State, killed during an accident. Six students of the university and nine others were killed on January 23, 2021, when a truck belonging to Dangote Group, rammed into a shopping complex in Akungba Akoko. The National President of NANS, Sunday Asefon, shortly after the accident, promised to seek justice for victims, assuring that their death would not be in vain. Asefon in a statement entitled: “Our Colleagues Must Get Justice,’ in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, said compensation pact was reached with Dangote Group after a meeting with its management on Thursday. Asefon said the meeting was also attended by NANS’ Senate President, Chuks Okafor; Vice President, National Affairs, Yasiz Tanko; Zone D Coordinator, Samuel Kappo and others, as well as NANS Joint Campus Committee (JCC) leadership in Ondo State. He said aside from financial compensation, Dangote Group was mandated to give employments to qualified members of each of the bereaved families. “And we made it clear that where there are no qualified family members for employment, Dangote should award scholarships up to the university level to a member of the family. “We requested that Dangote, through tax arrangements with Federal Government, should rehabilitate Isua-Akungba Akoko Road, where the carnage happened. “In its Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR), a project should be executed for AAUA or Akungba metropolis and should be named after the victims of January 23, 2021 truck crash, to immortalise all, including our fallen students,” he said. He added that an all-inclusive committee was set up to ensure agreements reached the meeting were executed within stipulated time.
 “
NANS will do everything possible to ensure improved welfare and adequate protection of the interest of Nigerian students, local and global,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .