 [FILES] Wike. Photo: TWITTTER/GOVWIKE  Wike gave the advice, yesterday, while addressing PDP leaders in South East during a meeting held in Enugu to reconcile Anambra stakeholders ahead of the November election. The Rivers governor explained that he was in Enugu to commiserate with Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and former Deputy Senate President, Dr. Ike Ekweremadu, on the death of the state’s former Commissioner of Transport, Mathias Ekweremadu, but was notified of the meeting by Ugwuanyi who also urged him (Wike) to stop by and speak to delegates at Government House. According to Wike, the November election offers PDP a rare opportunity to retake Anambra and consolidate the party’s grip on the South East geopolitical zone. And to achieve this, he said, people must be willing to make sacrifices in the overall interest of PDP. “Let us have party interest, not group interest, and put everything aside. Anambra used to be a PDP state but because of wrangling and not giving in, PDP lost Anambra. Only two states in the South East which are Enugu and Abia are PDP today. If we add Anambra, it is a good boost for us,” Wike said. He warned that if PDP failed to win Anambra State, it would not augur well for the party, particularly in the South East. To this, he urged the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to allow governors oversee both conduct of congresses and governorship primary in Anambra. “It must be done transparently. Whether the congresses or the primary itself, the governors will be in charge, to come and do the election.” According to him, allowing PDP governors to oversee the conduct of the congresses and primary will determine whether the NWC is serious about PDP winning Anambra election. Governor Wike specially charged PDP National Organising Secretary, Col Austin Akobundu (rtd), who was present at the meeting, to ensure that processes leading to election of the party’s candidate done transparently to give people confidence that the party means well for all. “You have a critical role. Luckily you’re from South East. Tell them that if we lose Anambra, there is problem for us in the South East. And you know that APC is coming out strong to fight in Anambra State. So let us work together,” Wike charged Akobundu. He promised that PDP governors would support the party in Anambra to win the November election. “All of us are ready to give Anambra that support to win this election.” Governor Wike appealed to those in court to withdraw their suits in the interest of PDP. He further urged contending factions to reconcile and work in unison. “In the name of God, everybody keep your ego. Part of the problem is ego, let us work as a team and deliver PDP.” Ugwuanyi; former Senate President and Secretary to Government of the Federation, Anyim Pius Anyim; former Minister of Women and Social Affairs, Iyom Josephine Anenih; PDP vice presidential candidate in 2019, Peter Obi; former governor of Ebonyi State, Sam Egwu and former governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha were there.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .