 Clement Ogwu hopes MFM FC claim three points by beating Heartland FC in today’s duel at the Temple Stadium in Agege  The encounter, a Match Day Nine of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), will see the Olukoya Boys try to redeem themselves on home soil against the Okigwe-based Naze Millionaires after failing to win a game in their two last home matches against Enugu Rangers and Kwara United. With two wins, four draws and two defeats in their eight games, the Lagos based team has only amassed 10 points and they’re now occupying 13th position and a win today will see them restore their confidence in home fixtures. On the other hand, the Coach Ilechukwu-led team, which has been faced a lot of crises this season, ranging from none payment of salaries, sign-on fees and others, now languish in 18th position with two wins, a draw and five losses. No doubt, Heartland will also want to get result here at the Agege Stadium just like the two previous teams did. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, MFM’s striker, Clement Ogwu, said that despite the team’s inability to win any of its last two home games, the players had resolved to welcome their former coach with a defeat in today’s contest. “Coach Ilechukwu was our former coach at MFM FC, but we’re not in a friendly mood now, as the players are determined to win in tomorrow’s encounter. We drew two of our last home games and we can’t afford to draw another against Heartland FC. “Despite all our efforts in the last two home matches, they still ended in draws. It happens like that at times because it is football. And that is why we’re going to put in our best to win the game. We’re already dreaming of that victory now. “Though we’re not in any way under pressure to win, this is what we must do to make our club, coach and supporters happy. Our coach, Tony Bolus, has been encouraging us despite the draws at home and away losses, but I believe we will triumph in tomorrow’s match by God’s grace,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .