• VP urges Nigerians to resist the attempt to destroy Nigeria’s unity
• Says party remains best to solve nation’s problems Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has appealed to Nigerians to resist any attempt to destroy the unity that the citizens had lived and worked together for. Osinbajo, accompanied by the Niger State governor and the National Chairman of the APC Registration and Revalidation Committee, Abubakar Sanni Bello, made the appeal, yesterday, during the revalidation of his membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at Ward 1, Unit 3, Egunrege, Ikenne, in Ikenne Local Council of Ogun State. He said that the Federal Government would continue to attend to the cries of communities for justice, equity and fairness, adding that the nation was stronger together than apart. Osinbajo revalidates his APC Membership status in Ward One, Ikenne, Ogun State. Photo; TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV  “We are in government at one of the most challenging times in history. The pandemic has made matters worse, and we have also had security challenges that have stretched our law enforcement capacities all over the country. What we must ensure is the prosecution of all those who have been arrested for kidnapping, banditry and all other forms of criminalities. There must be evidence that justice is being done. “We must resist any attempt to destroy the unity of this country. Our people have lived and worked together for decades, even centuries. While we must attend to the cries of communities, and the cries of our people for justice, equity and fairness, we can do so within this same union. Ultimately we are stronger together than apart,” he said. ALSO, Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun and former Governor Olusegun Osoba officially revalidated their membership of the APC in the state. Abiodun was registered at Ward 3, Polling Unit 1, Iperu-Remo also in Ikenne Local Council, while Chief Osoba revalidated his membership at Sodubi Primary School, Ward 7, Polling Booth 3 in Obafemi/Owode Local Council. Osinbajo, who said he was happy to be at his ward to revalidate his membership of the APC, noted that the registration and revalidation exercise was important for the party to identify and reach out to members, adding that the APC is a grassroots party with a focus on the welfare of the people. He, however, urged Nigerians to collaborate with the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration in its efforts to surmount various challenges confronting Nigeria. In his remark, Abiodun commended Osinbajo and Buhari for going back to their respective wards to revalidate their membership of the ruling party. He said the registration and revalidation exercise would be successful in Ogun, adding that new members would be mobilised during the exercise. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .