FIFA (www.FIFA.com) President Gianni Infantino concluded his visit to Morocco by thanking his highness, King Mohammed VI, the Moroccan government and Moroccan Football Association (FRMF) for their commitment and continuous support for the development of football in the country and beyond.  “I would like to thank everyone who has accompanied us on this visit, firstly his majesty King Mohammed VI, for his interest and passion for football, and for his support and ambition to grow the sport even further in Morocco,” the FIFA President said. “Without him, and without the support of both the government and everyone at the federation, this development would not be possible. We were able to discuss openly and to identify concretely the projects for the future development of not only Moroccan football, but of African football, and football across the world, especially as Morocco plays a pivotal role in the global game.” While in Rabat, the FIFA President also had the opportunity to meet CAF presidential candidate Jacques Anouma, who is also visiting the country. “I was very happy to have the chance to discuss with Jacques Anouma his plans for the future of African football and how can FIFA, CAF and the African member associations work together, hand in hand, to bring African football to the very top level it deserves to be,” the FIFA President said. In recent days, during his trip to several African countries, the FIFA President has met with four candidates to for the upcoming CAF presidential elections, namely Jacques Anouma, Patrice Motsepe, Augustin Senghor and Ahmed Yahya. The trip, which has spanned nine countries to date, will also include visits to Mali and Benin. A visit to Ivory Coast was also foreseen, but it will be rescheduled for a later occasion primarily because a meeting with head of state, President Alassane Ouattara, could not be facilitated on the originally planned date. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Fédération internationale de football association (FIFA). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .