 Chairman of African Union Moussa Faki Mahamat PHOTO: African Union Commission  The former Chadian prime minister, who ran unopposed, received support from 51 of 55 member states, officials said. “Deeply humbled by the overwhelming and historic vote of confidence,” Faki tweeted. He also congratulated Monique Nsanzabaganwa, deputy governor of the National Bank of Rwanda, on her election as his deputy. Under new rules, a chairperson and deputy cannot be of the same gender. But the duo will face a tough test as Africa battles the coronavirus pandemic, which has infected more than three million people. The continent was not as badly hit compared to the United State and Europe during the outbreak in March, but many African countries are now battling damaging second waves and are under pressure to procure sufficient vaccine doses. While vaccination programmes have begun in some countries on the continent, it has been much slower than in wealthier nations, and health experts and political leaders have warned that “vaccine hoarding” by wealthy nations is putting lives at risk in African countries. Nigerian Bankole Adeoye was meanwhile favoured to head the AU’s newly-merged political affairs and peace and security departments, diplomats said, though AU rules dividing top positions among Africa’s sub-regions could lead to a surprise result. Other newly elected commissioners are; Agriculture, Rural Development, Josefa Leonel Coreeia Sacko (Angola – Southern region) – re-elected incumbent. Economic Development, Trade and Industry – Albert Muchanga (Zambia – Southern Region) re-elected incumbent. Education, Science and Technology . Elections suspended as both candidates were from the Southern Region (South Africa and Zimbabwe) since the Region already got 1 and 2. New elections with new candidates to be done during the 39th Ordinary Session of the Executive Council in June, 2021. The incumbent will continue until elections are held. Infrastructure and Energy, candidate from Zimbabwe eliminated since Southern Region already won 1 and 2. The incumbent, Amani About Zeid from Egypt was re-elected. The incumbent Commissioner on Social Affairs, Health, will continue until elections are held during the 39th Ordinary Session of the Assembly. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .