 Oraegbunam addressing BLCI members  There is a quiet revolution going on in the entire Southeast geopolitical zone and if things continue this way, the political narratives of the zone would shift dramatically, a socio-political action group, Buhari Legacy Continuity Initiative (BLCI) has said. BLCI noted that apart from the construction of the second Niger Bridge, President Muhammadu Buhari has been pursuing a steady course of infrastructure renewal of the zone, stressing that the recent upgrade of Enugu Airport runway of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport to an international standard is worthy of commendation. These facts were contained in a seven-point communiqué released by Anambra State chapter of BLCI at the end of its steering meeting at Sao Paulo Villa Hotel, Enugu-Ukwu, Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra State. According to Ozo Engineer Sam Osita Oraegbunam, who read the communiqué to journalists, BLCI was happy that President Buhari hearkened to its plea for the inclusion of the East-West segment on the country’s Rail Transportation master plan, stressing that the President has adopted quiet pragmatism in his approach to uplifting critical infrastructure in the Southeast. It would be recalled that during the recent virtual groundbreaking ceremony for the Kano-Maradi transnational standard gauge railway, President Buhari urged the Ministry of Transportation to expedite action on the East-West rail line, stressing that his administration was committed to addressing the infrastructure deficit in the country’s transportation sector for greater economic activities. The President had said: “On the Eastern corridor of the country, the Port Harcourt – Enugu – Makurdi – Maiduguri rail line with branches to Owerri, Imo state and Damaturu, Yobe State have been awarded for reconstruction to include a deep seaport in Bonny Island and a Railway Industrial Park in Port Harcourt… “The Federal Ministry of Transportation and Ministry of Finance have been directed to vigorously act on engagement and concluding a financial arrangement with appropriate co-financiers to partner with the Federal Government for the development of the West-East Coastal rail line from Lagos to Calabar and linking Onitsha, Benin, Warri, Yenegao, Port Harcourt, Aba and Uyo.” In the communiqué read by its coordinator, BLCI commended President Buhari “for his focused approach to governance notwithstanding the myriads of distractions. BLCI believes that it is this quality and firm approach to multi-sectoral initiatives that have made the achievement of great results a reality.” The group also called for the emergence of a President of Igbo extraction in the 2023 Presidential election, stressing that “Igbo Presidency come 2023 will effectively reunite the nation, satisfy national equity and stabilize our nation.” While pledging its support for the idea of Igbo Presidency in 2023, BLCI said the notion should enjoy the encouragement of all well-meaning citizens of the country. Part of the communiqué read: “BLCI unanimously resolved to sustain its support for Mr. President and also to continue to educate the general public on the numerous programmes and interventions of his administration towards the general welfare of the people and overall interest of our country. “That we hereby register our immense gratitude to the President and Commander in Chief, Muhammadu Buhari, for the excellent work he is doing on the Enugu – Onitsha Expressway, he seconds Niger Bridge, Enugu – Port Harcourt Expressway. “We also note that all the numerous projects and interventions of the Buhari administration in Igboland will in the long run, facilitate value addition to the national economy. “That BLCI appreciates the recent appointment by President Buhari of an Igbo man, Maj. Gen. Lucky Eluonye Onyenuchea Irabor from Delta State as Chief of Defence Staff.” The group praised the Honourable Minister for Transport H.E Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, “for his impeccable leadership and stellar performance in driving the massive revolution in the nation’s railway sector and waterway development.” The group, however, urged the Minister to recommend the inclusion of the Enugu – Anambra axis of the railway intervention in the railway master plan for more value addition to the national economy. On the issue of security, BLCI tasked the new Service Chiefs to be more proactive and devise new tactics and approach to protecting the internal security of the country, stressing that they should “do all in their power to ensure the safety of all Nigerians in line with President Buhari’s dreams. The group, therefore, urged Nigerians from all walks of life, especially the elites, to support the President and his administration in the overall interest of the nation, adding that citizens need be reminded that the success of Mr. President’s administration translates to the success of Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .