Fulani herdsmen PHOTO:Getty images Continued from yesterday The order of the Ondo State Governor was misconstrued and misrepresented by a section of the media. He only ordered those occupying the Forest Reserves in Ondo State illegally to quit.
5. Criminals should be apprehended and punished, no matter their origin, class or status. 6. Security agencies have been trying to stem the tide of criminality in the country but must step up their efforts in the fight. 7. There is the need to build partnership for peace and security with MACBAN and jointly wage war against criminality. 8. No one had sent anyone away from any state or region, but all hands must be on deck to fight criminality. 9. MACBAN is a peace loving, law abiding organization which does not habour or condone criminals and agreed that: 9.1 Night grazing should be banned henceforth
9.2 Underage herding is Inimical to security and hence be banned
9.3 Occupation of State Forest Reserves illegally is condemned. 10. MACBAN also suffers insecurity and kidnapping and thus desire peaceful coexistence. 11. MACBAN is ready for any peaceful move by the states to engender security. 12. Fake news is another issue that makes our security worse than solving it. 13. There must be an enduring framework with MACBAN in a way that will help address security issues. 14. That free range grazing must be stopped to avoid conflicts between the farmers and the herders. 15. Strengthening alternative security arrangements and make them complementary to the mainstream security agencies in Nigeria. 16. MACBAN should embrace and be committed to modern breeding process by creating grazing reserves and practice ranching to prevent cattle roaming about. 17. Standing Committee comprising of farmers, MACBAN and the Government should be set up in each state (where they don’t exist) to ensure synergy and result. 18. We must create economic opportunities for our people and reduce opportunities for criminalities in our country. If you ask me, this is nothing but a bunch of garbage. I call BS!!! What’s wrong with these fools? Who do these people think they are fooling? What koolaid are they drinking? Have they completely lost their minds? These resolutions are empty rhetoric and a fat heap of hot cow dung. What you have here is a passive ineffectual nothing burger that will accomplish nothing. These are toothless aspirations that, at the end of the day, will not result in tangible actions that will curb the menace of the Fulani herdsmen. For whatever reason, it seems as though the supposed “leaders” of the South West have signed on to a secret pact that permits the terrorizing of the people whom they are supposed to lead. Empty suit politicians, with some of the highest ratio of ambition to accomplishment of any politician ever, have resolved to grant ravenous wolves an open sesame and the free rein to slaughter the people they swore an oath to protect and preserve. The cowardice offends me greatly. That they are able to sleep at night while the people of the South West can’t even afford to entertain a wink of sleep is troubling. By their deafening silence, Yoruba “leaders” have given their consent to the terrorizing of their own people. It is such a real shame. I cannot, in good conscience, fault Sunday Igboho for stepping forward to offer his protective services to the Ibarapa people. It’ll be disingenuous of me to say I’m against what he is doing to liberate the villages of Ibarapaland. Since the government in place has woefully failed and the “leaders” – political, traditional, and otherwise – have turned their backs to the plight of their own people, someone else has to do it. The vacuum of responsible and responsive leadership created must be filled. If only the Yorubas would unite, organize, and quit the victim mentality, perhaps, they’ll be able to think and strategize and come up with an effective solution that will eradicate the menace that lurks in their farmlands and eliminate the terror that roams in their backyards. Maybe if the Yorubas learn to choose their leaders with greater care and deeper introspection, they would be able to find a creative solution to the problem they themselves have created.
Concluded. Ojumu, MD, MPH, of the US National Institutes of Health, wrote on the African Plume Blog.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .