The Lagos State Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA) has disclosed that 103 health facilities were sealed in 2020 across the state for non-compliance with regulatory standards. The agency’s Executive Secretary, Dr Abiola Idowu, who disclosed this, yesterday, during a virtual meeting with the agency’s staff, stated that some of the facilities had been reopened having corrected the infractions, aside pledging to abide by set standards. “The facilities were shut down for infractions ranging from quackery, operating beyond schedule, lack of qualified medical personnel to non-registration of facilities and lack of basic equipment. Although many of the facilities were reopened because they have corrected the infractions but a few others will remain sealed until they do the right thing,” she stated. While emphasising the commitment of the State Government in sustaining the fight against quackery and unprofessional conducts in the system, she observed that the recent validation of the five-year strategic plan of the Agency will go a long way in improving the quality of healthcare delivery to Lagosians through efficient and effective monitoring of health facilities. She urged staff members to redouble their efforts in ensuring quality service delivery to customers and the public.
The executive secretary revealed that the Agency has already deployed the use of the Health Facility Inspection Tool, Health FIT to enhance effective and efficient inspection and monitoring of health facilities in the state. She warned that the state government would not tolerate any form of illegal practices, urging all health facility operators across the state to abide strictly with the set standards to avoid sanction. She advised new facilities to register with the Agency before starting operations to protect the people’s health, adding that existing registered operators should ensure prompt renewal of their certificate to avoid sanction. The HEFAMAA boss urged the public to continue supporting the government in its fight against quackery and illegal operation of health facilities by reporting people behind such acts to the Agency to safeguard citizens’ health and well-being. She reaffirmed the agency’s commitment in supporting the vision of the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration to achieve accessible, affordable and quality healthcare for residents. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .