Troops beat ultimatum, liberate Marte from B’Haram 
Gunmen have killed three persons, abducted nine women and injured many others in Sabuwa Council of Katsina State. The bandits, who operated late Monday night into the early hours of yesterday, ransacked three communities of Mai Bakko, Kawarawa and Unguwar Bako. According to a source who pleaded anonymity, the deceased were identified as Ahmed, Jabir and Abubakar. The Guardian learnt that three of the casualties in critical condition were receiving treatment in a hospital at the council headquarters. A resident, simply identified as Umar, said that his new wife was abducted in his presence. The gunmen attacked Matazu Council in the wee hours of Tuesday and abducted Rabi Musawa, the mother-in-law of renowned business mogul, Dahiru Mangal. In an operation that looked coordinated, a third group of gunmen on the same day, abducted Rabi’s son-in-law, Buhari Muntari, in Katsina town. A source from the Matazu area said the gunmen stormed the town about 1.00a.m, and proceeded to the matrimonial home of Rabi before whisking her away to an unknown destination. The husband, Alhaji Muntari Musawa, who confirmed the incident to newsmen, said the gunmen arrived his house about 1.30a.m, woke his wife and took her away on a motorcycle. Musawa also said the gunmen ordered his second wife to bring all the money and other valuables in the house, but she told them there was none in the house. Both incidents came less than a week after gunmen abducted a 91-year-old traditional ruler along with about 20 women in two separate operations in the state. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Katsina command, SP Gambo Isah, was yet to confirm the incident as at press time. MEANWHILE, the Nigerian Army has announced that troops of Operation Lafiya Dole have liberated Marte Council in Borno State from the control of Boko Haram, in response to the 48-hour ultimatum given to them by the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Maj-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru. Director, Army Public Relations, Brig-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, confirmed this cheering development in a statement yesterday in Abuja. He, however, did not give further details on the operation that liberated the council from Boko Haram stronghold. “Nigerian troops, this afternoon, around 3p.m, recovered New Marte and adjoining communities from the devilish Boko Haram terrorists. This is coming less than the 48 hours directive earlier given to the troops to recover the town by the COAS,” he said yesterday. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .