Team Qhubeka ASSOS (www.TeamQhubeka.com) is delighted to confirm the appointment of leading food scientist Dr. Samefko Ludidi, as the team’s official nutrition consultant for the upcoming season.  Although high performance endurance sports – especially cycling – are often thought of as something that has much to do with precision work and the calculation of food portions down to the milligram, Team Qhubeka ASSOS will seek to highlight a different approach in its nutrition strategy: a more humane one. Under the leadership of Dr. Ludidi, the nutritional policy of the entire team will be optimized in the coming months. Ludidi, who is known for his down-to-earth and human approach to food (no calorie or nutrient counting and much greater attention paid to the social aspects of food, such as food taste and deliciousness), breaks with the strict scientific and calculated ‘beta’ approach that currently predominates many elite sporting environments. Douglas Ryder, Team Principal: “The world in which we work is demanding and athletes experience a lot of pressure from all sides. The current food trend in cycling contributes to this. Athletes are measured from A to Z, both under controlled conditions in the lab, and also now “live” in the field. This goes from measuring wattages to blood sugar values ​​to the composition and amount of everything that riders eat and drink. There is so much emphasis on performance and performance optimization that we sometimes get lost in numbers and treat people almost like robots. That is not always favorable for the riders and their performance and that does not fit in with our Ubuntu philosophy, which focuses very strongly on the human factor. We are therefore pleased that we are now joining forces with Dr. Ludidi and his team.“ As Africa’s only UCI-registered WorldTour team, the collaboration with Ludidi is not entirely coincidental: he has South African roots, as the son of a South African. In the long term, joining forces will not only serve the professional cycling world, but also the broader cycling community, as well as society at large. Dr. Ludidi: “So much new knowledge arises with each new strategy and technology that is implemented. We believe it is important that the knowledge that we generate and that we are able to test is made accessible to the outside world. We get paid to compete at the highest level in perhaps the most beautiful sport in the world, so I believe that it is our duty to our fans that we share everything we learn there in the cycling world with the rest of the world. So that anyone can benefit from it, both as an amateur or recreational athlete, but also as a person. After all, health is something that affects us all.“ The arrival of Dr. Ludidi at Team Qhubeka ASSOS also offers opportunities for the educational branch of the Qhubeka Charity which uses the bicycle to facilitate better living, learning and working conditions and health. Ludidi will be assisted in his work by Daan Hoogervorst, who is responsible for establishing the national nutritional guidelines for sports dietetics in the Netherlands. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka ASSOS. Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About Team Qhubeka ASSOS:
Team Qhubeka ASSOS (www.TeamQhubeka.com) is a purpose-led, high-performance team, fighting to win on the world's biggest stage, to inspire hope and create opportunity. Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka ASSOS (formerly NTT Pro Cycling) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in six Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. There are 19 nationalities represented across our World Tour and continental feeder team rosters. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage, since the team's inception. We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 30 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (www.Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles.  People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .