 PDP Flag  The dissolved Onyekachi Nwebonyi-led faction and Fred Udogu-led caretaker committee are holding claim to the leadership of the party. While the dissolved Nwebonyi’s committee is in court contesting their dissolution, the Udogu-led group had last week obtained an injunction from an Abuja High Court restraining Nwebonyi and his executive members. Policemen and other personnel of other sister-agencies, numbering over 50, stormed the party’s secretariat along the ever-busy Enugu-Abakaliki Road to maintain law and order as the two groups continue to fight over who takes over the secretariat. The Ebonyi State Commissioner of Police, Shehu Garba, when contacted, told journalists that they were still battling to ensure that the secretariat was not vandalised, adding that efforts are being made to avert any breakdown of law and order at the secretariat. As at the time of filling in this report, the Commissioner of Police was yet to pick his calls for an update on the invasion of the party secretariat It would be recalled that the secretariat had been under lock and key for a while following the factionalisation of the party. The party became factionalised following the defection of the state governor, David Umahi, to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The National Executive of the PDP had in November last year, after the governor’s defection, dissolved the state executives of the party, including the State Working Committee led by Onyekachi Nwebonyi. The party also set up a caretaker committee led by Fred Udogu to oversee the party in the state in the interim. But Nwebonyi and other members of the dissolved SWC challenged their dissolution at the High Court. The matter had suffered several adjournments even as three judges have recused themselves from the matter. The Fred Udogu faction last two weeks instituted another case at an Abuja High Court on the same matter. The faction also reportedly secured an injunction barring the Nwebonyi committee from parading themselves as the authentic leadership of the party in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .