Experts harp true federalism, adherence to rule of law panacea for peace, security Former Military Governor of Ogun State, Commodore Kayode Olofin-Moyin (rtd), has chided President Muhammadu Buhari for his tribalistic appointment of the Security Council’s members, saying it is responsible for killings by herdsmen and kidnapping in the country. He said: “With the political inequality in the country today, Nigeria cannot have peace. I can’t trust the government, as the security team operating the security infrastructure today have all been northernised.” The former military administrator, who spoke at a peace, unity and security lecture series held, yesterday, at the ECOWAS Secretariat in Abuja, stressed the need for the adherence to the rule of law, saying without the guarantee of equality in the country, there cannot be progress or any development. He said: “There is need for the Federal Government to correct inequality in governance because when it is corrected, every other thing takes position. There will be peace and economic development. We must tell the President that he is an elected leader and the ball stops at his table. Nigerians want to hear from him and they want to see his stand of authority. ALSO, the Vice-Chancellor of Benson Idahosa University, Prof. Sam Guobadia, has said that not until the country restructures the mode of governance, there will be no peace, saying: “If there is no restructuring and power devolution, there cannot be peace. There is a need for a complete overall governance structure for realisation of peace, progress and stability.” In the same vein, the Convener of the lecture, Chioma Egboh, maintained that to find a lasting solution to sustainable peace regardless of ethnic differences, religious or cultural believes, Nigerians must endeavour to form an everlasting union that is well established in justice and equality of all. She said that the aim of the lecture was aimed at interrogating the socio-economic and political condition of the country, with a view to sharing messages and a better understanding of our experience. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .