Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Yekini Nabena has faulted calls by the Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed for the cancellation of the ongoing registration and revalidation of membership exercise of the party in Kwara state. Nabena in a statement argued that the call by Mohammed was aimed at undermining the survival of the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. He enjoined Mohammed to bury his hatchets with Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara state and work for the success of the party. “Mohammed should go back to his state chapter if he is still relevant there and work with the governor and other stakeholders for his voice to be heard at national level else we will believe that he and his gang are calling for the cancellation of the registration exercise for their selfish interest.” “The details of evil plans to destroy the APC. It has been exposed and the party leadership is fully aware. “At the right time, Lai Mohammed and his gang will be exposed and Nigerians will then know the real impostor, that time is sooner. NEC can’t commit suicide and give birth to Caretaker Committee because it is the highest body of the party. “Even the President, the governors, Senate President and the Speaker are all nembers of the NEC. So, if NEC commits suicide that shows there is no more party. “Time has left Lai Mohammed behind and he can’t catch up with time. Lai Mohammed and his fifth columnists are the biggest problems of this administration. As the Minister of Information and Culture that suppose to explain the policies and programmes, including remarkable achievements of this administration to Nigerians, Lai Muhammed has failed woefully. “Whatever he says is considered as a lie. If not, Lai should tell Nigerians what has been his contributions in the last five years.” Mohammed had called Nabena an impostor for advising him to work with Kwara state governor and allow peace to reign in the ongoing nationwide membership registration and revalidation exercise of the party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .