As an honour for their selflessness, the Murtala Muhammed Foundation (MMF) has said its 45th anniversary celebration is dedicated to COVID-19 frontline healthcare workers in Nigeria. The foundation, in a statement, on Saturday, said it is celebrating healthcare givers for being at the forefront of stemming the tide of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. According to foundation’s Chief Executive Officer, Aisha Muhammed- Oyebode, “through these frontline healthcare workers, we are reminded of our shared humanity as Nigerians. “In the words of Woodrow Wilson ‘There is no higher religion than human service. To work for the common good is the greatest creed” and it is against the backdrop of this reflection that we dedicate the commemoration of the 45th anniversary of the 4th Nigerian Head of State, General Murtala Muhammed in celebrating COVID19 frontline healthcare workers in Nigeria. “On the 13th of February, 1976, General Murtala Muhammed paid the highest service to country with his life and as we honor the memory of his short life with towering impact, we are reminded that not many of us will have the greatness to bend history, but each of us can work to change a small portion of events. “It is from this numberless diverse acts of courage and belief that human history is shaped and in this gentle way, we all can shake the world. “Today as we remember General Murtala Muhammed, not as a Nigerian without flaws but as one who exemplified clarity of purpose, service to humanity, and courage in a storm, we in the same regard acknowledge the living outliers amongst us.” In the same vein, Muhammed-Oyebode, disclosed that the Foundation has commissioned a medical compendium to extend medical vocabularies to reach the most marginalised communities in Nigeria in their local language through the Med Assist (COVID Partner line) telemedicine initiative of the Foundation. “Through your every act of courage and service to country, the spirit of General Murtala Muhammed lives on. We celebrate you,” she told workers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .