Obaseki. Photo: TWITTER/GODWINOBASEKI Gov celebrates women scientists, others in fight against COVID-19
Edo State council of the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives (NANNM), yesterday, dismissed Governor Godwin Obaseki’s corruption allegation against stakeholders in the state’s health sector, insisting that his claims were unfounded. Obaseki had, during a meeting with stakeholders, lamented the level of corruption in the healthcare system describing it as alarming and unacceptable. But reacting in a statement, the state chairman of NANNM, Comrade Eseine Catherine and Secretary, Dr. Ikedi Onah, the association said the governor’s allegation amounted to an inclusive generalisation, noting that it had maintained subdued resentment in the wake of perpetual exclusion from meetings of stakeholders in the health sector over the years. It described the exclusion of nurses, who are the most populous single professionals in the healthcare team from stakeholders meeting, as absurd and counter-productive. BESIDES, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), at the weekend, commended management of Auchi Polytechnic for safety measures put in place in compliance with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) protocols aimed at containing the spread of COVID-19 at the institution. NANS also passed a vote of confidence on the Acting Rector, Mustapha Zubair, for his leadership style since he assumed office as the head of the institution. Vice President of NANS, Special Duties, Comrade Odiahi Ikhine, stated this during the opening ceremony of the Auchi Polytechnic, saying the students and leadership of NANS were impressed with Zubair’s development strides.
MEANWHILE, Obaseki, has commended women scientists, researchers, medical practitioners and volunteers, among others, for their roles in governments’ efforts to contain the second wave of coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Obaseki acknowledged the sacrifice and important roles played by women across the globe in curbing the spread of the virus and providing care for sick persons globally in the wake of the pandemic. He reassured that his government would continue to emplace policies and programmes aimed at encouraging the girl-child education, especially in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines. Governor Obaseki said this during the commemoration of the 2021 International Day for Women and Girls in Science marked yearly by the United Nations (UN), with the theme: Women Scientists At The Forefront Of The Fight Against COVID-19. “We must leverage this year’s International Day for Women and Girls in Science to honour our women in different fields who have at various levels contributed immensely to tackling the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic,” he stated. He noted that policies and programmes would be designed to encourage girl-child education, especially in STEM disciplines, adding: “We are focusing on basic and technical education to ensure that our children get a head-start to explore careers in science and technology without discrimination.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .