Today, Canon Europe (www.Canon-Europe.com) announces the launch of the imagePRESS C170 Series, allowing businesses to explore creative printing in-house. Designed to deliver high-resolution, personalised, vividly coloured prints, it offers an alternative solution for businesses looking to push their creative limits.  A creative powerhouse Following the successful launch of the imagePRESS C165 in 2019 and the continual industry demand for streamlined professional workflows in office environments, the imagePRESS C170 brings serious creative power, equipping businesses with the ability to create ultra-colourful, ultra-crisp prints at a professional standard. Launched to further support an organisation’s wide-ranging printing needs and helps them to diversify their creative options, thanks to its ability to can handle distinctive formats alongside standard A4 and A3 media, including envelopes and heavy media up to 350gsm, and long-sheet banners up to 1300mm. For further flexibility, the devices can support gloss, silk, plain and textured media, as well as delivering a large range of in-line professional finishing for versatile and creative outputs. Empowering productivity With hybrid ways of working accelerating and the role of the office diversifying, businesses have a heightened need to be as productive as possible whilst in the office. Combining office functionality and connectivity, with professional output, the imagePRESS C170 Series enables customers to broaden their print capabilities, capitalising on their investment. Designed to meet fast turnaround times and deadlines, the imagePRESS C170 Series offers incredible speeds of up to 70 pages per minute (ppm) in colour, and up to 80 ppm in black and white, so users can get work done quicker. The device is intended to be as easy to use as possible, offering the same intuitive interface, navigation and customer experience as other Canon devices, further saving time. Like the imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX models, the imagePRESS C170 Series offers security features designed to help users safeguard sensitive information, ensure employee and customer privacy, and assist in regulatory compliance in high-end office and light production environments. Once activated, the McAfee Embedded Control feature helps block the execution of unauthorised applications through intelligent whitelisting. Amine Djouahra, Sales and Marketing Director at Canon Central and North Africa commented: “The way we work is changing at incredible speed, but for many, the office is a hub for collaboration; where the physical meets the digital, and where creativity thrives. The imagePRESS C170 Series offers world-class printing technology to revolutionise print communications and empower hybrid working.” With its high-quality printing capabilities and professional finishing options, the imagePRESS C170 Series enables businesses to drive customer engagement and unleash the power of print. For more information about imagePRESS C170 Series, please visit: https://bit.ly/3jd4GRf Key Specs – imagePRESS C170 series Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media Contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Rania ElRafie
e. Rania.ElRafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: www.Canon-CNA.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .