Enhanced security measures should remain in place at the US Capitol amid threats by militia members to stage an attack during President Joe Biden's expected State of the Union address, the acting Capitol police chief said Thursday. "We know that the insurrectionists that attacked the Capitol weren't only interesting in attacking members of Congress and officers," Yogananda Pittman said at a congressional hearing into the January 6 attack on the Capitol by supporters of then-president Donald Trump. "They wanted to send a symbolic message to the nation as to who was in charge of that legislative process," she told lawmakers. Pittman said a robust security posture should remain at the Capitol ahead of Biden's first State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress, which has not yet been scheduled. (FILES) In this file photo taken on January 19, 2021, razor wire tops a security fence outside the US Capitol in Washington, DC. - Enhanced security measures should remain in place at the US Capitol amid threats by militia members to stage an attack during President Joe Biden's expected State of the Union address, acting Capitol police chief, Yogananda Pittman, said on February 25, 2021, at a congressional hearing into the January 6 attack on the Capitol by supporters of then-president Donald Trump. (Photo by Olivier DOULIERY / AFP)  "So based on that information, we think that it's prudent that Capitol police maintain its enhanced and robust security posture until we address those vulnerabilities going forward." Following the January 6 attack, fencing has been erected around the Capitol grounds, and National Guard troops have been deployed to back up the Capitol police force. During the hearing, Pittman and the acting House sergeant at arms addressed intelligence and communications failures connected with the January 6 attack on the Capitol, which left at least five people dead. Trump supporters stormed the Capitol in an attempt to prevent Congress from certifying the results of Biden's victory in the November 3 presidential election. Trump was impeached by the House of Representatives for inciting the attack on the Capitol but acquitted by the Senate. Pittman estimated during the hearing that more than 10,000 protesters had entered the Capitol grounds on January 6 and that approximately 800 had actually entered the Capitol building. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .