Players from across the country are expected to participate in the Professional Golfers Association of Nigeria (PGA of Nigeria) pet developmental programme for the top stars (men and women) known as the Initial Professional Education Programme (IPE), which begins today. According to the PGAN, the programme, which timetable was circulated to concerned players and officials a few days ago, will lead to the award of Diploma to the participants. It added, “It will enhance participants capability and capacity as PGA pros. More importantly, it will make their service delivery more professional and uplift their profile as PGA pro.” The PGAN, which met with the Confederation of Professional Golf (CPG) recently, said the training opens an opportunity for every member to enhance his knowledge of the sport. It added: “The training is open to all interested members of the Association. No member will be allowed to join the training in the middle. Everyone must start together from the beginning, as there will be many assignments, which will be submitted on-line. “At the recent meeting, CPG emphasised that trainees for the IPE must have good internet, smartphone (computer or laptop will be better), download Zoom on their phone or laptop, open Google account with Google drive and ensure you are free for class from February 2. These are very important. If you don’t have any of these already, start working on them now so that you will be fully ready before Feb. “The training will equally be a step for those who want to advance themselves in the profession to continue with ease. “More importantly, it will put members of the PGA of Nigeria on the same pedestal with their counterpart in the developed countries.” The PGAN also disclosed that Mr. Jim van Heuven van Staereling of Holland has been appointed as “our Country Mentor for the programme, which is being sponsored by R&A and facilitated by the Confederation of Professional Golf (CPG). It added that it is an online course as a result of COVID-19 and the distance.” The PGAN disclosed that the IPE is different from the soon to begin the Special Training Programme for lady golfers. It added that the training is expected to enhance coaching capacity and service delivery of Nigerian professionals, “and also put them in tune with international standard in the discharge of their duties with the use of modern tools and technology as PGA pros.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .