Lagos State Government Tuesday asked a federal high court in Ikoyi to strike out the suit challenging the ban on commercial motorcycles and tricycles known as okada and  Keke Marwa in some areas in the state. The state attorney-general Moyosore Onigbanjo SAN made the appeal during a court hearing of the suit. Onigbanjo said the restriction was carried out through an executive order in accordance to the law. The justice commissioner said the government has filed a notice of preliminary objection and counter affidavit with written address in opposition to the originating summons of the applicant. Lagos State in January 2020 banned the operations of commercial motorcycles and tricycles in six local government areas in the state. The affected LGs are the state capital Ikeja, Lagos Mainland, Lagos Island, Apapa, Surulere and Eti Osa. The ban will come into effect on February 1. The ban affects the local council development areas (LCDAs) under the LG. They are Apapa LG- Apapa Iganmu LCDA, Lagos Mainland LG – Yaba LCDA, Surulere LG- Itire-Ikate and Coker-Aguda LCDAs, Ikeja LG- Onigbongbo and Ojodu LCDAs, Eti-Osa LG- Ikoyi-Obalende and Iru/Victoria Island LCDAs, Lagos Island LG- Lagos Island East LCDA. Lagos information commissioner Gbenga Omotosho said the ban was the first stage of the state government’s plan to sanitize its “roads and protect Lagosians from the negative effects of these illegal modes of transportation.” The ban drew wide criticisms from transport unions, civil society groups and other residents in the state. One of many persons irked by the ban is Olukoya Ogungbeje who had filed a fundamental human rights application before the Federal High Court, Ikoyi to challenge the executive order by Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. While the court is yet to decide on the case Onigbanjo prayed the court to dismiss the originating summons, saying that the restriction of motorcycles and tricycles on major roads in the state is powered by the provisions of the Transport Sector Reform Law, 2018. The presiding judge, Justice Liman, reserved judgment on the matter till Wednesday February, 3 2021.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .