The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) has called for the sacking of Minister for Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, and Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu for allegedly misinforming Nigerians and turning the country into a laughing stock at the global sphere. In a statement by its Secretary-General, Chief Willy Ezugwu, CNPP, the umbrella body of political parties in the country, said: “The Minister of Information, Muhammed, and the presidential spokesman, Shehu, are two major liabilities that have contributed to the poor image of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) administration.”
According to CNPP, “President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration would have been perceived in a better light without the duo. “To most Nigerians, the Minister of Information represents a face of misinformation, just like the presidential adviser, Shehu. Their responses or reactions to national issues have continued to put present government’s sincerity in doubt. “For instance, when did the Minister of Information realise that Transparency International (TI’s) Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is unreliable? “The minister has been working very hard, albeit unsuccessfully, to discredit the current rating of Nigeria among the most corrupt countries in the world. “However, the CNPP recalls that, as an opposition spokesman, the minister had, at no time, doubted the TI’s CPI on Nigeria. “Less than eight years ago, Muhammed described Nigeria’s low corruption rating as a reflection of harvest of corruption, scandals under then-President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, which he claimed was attested to by TI.
 
“Minister Mohammed once urged then President Jonathan to ‘wake from his slumber and face the reality that corruption is fast eating deep into the soul of Nigeria’, based on low corruption rating.” CNPP said how come the Minister of Information has been busy trying to discredit an organisation he had always hailed as opposition spokesman? The statement further reads: “Nearly five years after Mohammed declared that insurgents have been technically defeated, President Buhari’s administration has not been able to proactively stopped Boko Haram insurgents, rather, new phases of terrorism like banditry and killer herders’ activities have taken a turn for the worse. “Just like the perception of Buhari’s administration on security has changed, with renewed hope since the sacking of the former service chiefs, we urge the President to give his administration a fresh breathe by firing the two top information managers.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .