 NFF First Vice-President, Seyi Akinwunmi (second left); Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr and LSSC Chairman, Sola Aiyepeku, during the inspection of facilities at the Teslim Balogun Stadium… on Thursday  Speaking to a crew of NFF’s officials that included Coach Gernot Rohr, who was on an inspection tour of the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Aiyepeku said the facilities that included the pitch, players’ dressing room, referees, medical among others, told the team that everything would be more than ready before the match day. Aiyepeku, said, “The coach made a lot of complaints that have to do with the playing surface. We know that tending and maintaining a pitch is major thing and we explained that the pitch would be ready. The grass is green all over and there are different things that will be done to ensure that the pitch is match ready. “We’re about six to seven weeks away from the game and before that time, everything will be put in place to make it ready. The benefits of hosting a match of this magnitude are multi-dimensional, ranging from the economic to social benefits. “It’s been 10 years since Lagos hosted Eagles and we think it’s also iconic time to bring them back. Because of Super Eagles and their pedigree, hosting the game in the state serves as an aspirational tool. It’s the highest level of football in the country and the benefits are multifaceted.” According to the First Vice President of the NFF, Seyi Akinwunmi, “Lagos State is the Centre of Excellence and before we knew that we will try and host, we were already working on our facilities. Before this proper inspection, the NFF president and I had already come to have a view and I am very happy with what I have seen. “The dressing room top class, the stadium is not where we want it to be at the end of the day, but it is more than enough to host this match. We want to show the hospitality of Lagos people and our ability to host. We hosted the world before so why can’t we host the match. We must thank honestly the Executive Governor of Lagos State and the sports commission because they’ve done excellently well and we’re very happy,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .