Barely two weeks after the chairman of Ardo-Kola Council in Taraba State, Salihu Dovo, was gruesomely murdered by his abductors, the state has again been thrown into a pensive mood, as the state Chairman of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Peter Jediel, was said to have been kidnapped. The incident, which The Guardian learnt occurred in the early hours of Sunday, was said to have happened in Sunkani, the administrative headquarters of Ardo-Kola Council. Confirming the incident via a telephone conversation, the younger brother of the victim, Boniface Stephen, said the hoodlums, who were armed to the teeth, shot into the air in order to scare neighbour’s away. The hoodlums, he said, stormed his premises at about 12:00 am. Sunday morning, succeeded in disappearing with their victim shortly after bringing down the gate to the entrance of the house. As of the time of filing this report, the kidnappers, according to him, have not reached out to the family to make any demands. Passionately calling on both the state government and all security operatives in the state to help rescue his brother, he urged the people of the state irrespective of religious difference to join hands in prayers for the immediate release of the labour leader. When reached for confirmation, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), David Misal, declined comments as he had already been transferred out of the state and no longer in charge of the command publicity. Jediel, as observed by The Guardian, was not the first NLC chairman of the state to be kidnapped. The immediate past chairman, the late Peter Gambo, was kidnapped from his residence located in Jalingo metropolis before his demise. Saddened by the development, some labour leaders stressed the need for government to wake up to its responsibility by collaborating with various security outfit to flush out all the undesirable elements which they observed have been giving the people sleepless nights from the state. The security situation of the state, as noticed by The Guardian, has no doubt begun to take a different dimension, as going to bed with two eyes tenaciously closed as now become a thing of the past. The list of persons so far kidnapped within the space of January to date, by our correspondent is not only endless but have as begin to compelled some prominent persons to seek for alternative areas to lay their heads once its bedtime. The governor, Arc. Darius Dickson Ishaku, who has not been comfortable with the spate of insecurity in the state, as seen by The Guardian, has been at the forefront advocating for state police and the need for Nigerians to be allowed to own firearms to defend themselves. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .