A former senator, Emma Anosike, has urged people of the Southeast to close ranks if they want to play a more significant role in the national politics, noting that power is taken and never served on a platter for anyone. He blamed fifth columnists from the zone who sell the collective will of the people whenever they go to fall upon one another before people from other zones for a mere pottage, saying the zone needs to start early to build bridges of political relationship with people of other zones to gain their support when the time comes. Speaking during Igu-Aro festival in Umueri in Anambra East Council when the Ajie, when the high priest of Aro unveiled his message to mark the beginning of the traditional new year and kick-starting the new planting season, Anosike charged the people of Anambra South senatorial zone to go for the next governorship of the state, assuring that his Anambra North zone had resolved to support them. Also speaking at the event, veteran Nollywood actor, Chief Pete Edochie, has called on the Anambra State Government to uplift and internationalise festivals that uplift the people’s lives to make them tourist attractions and foreign exchange earners. Edochie described the Ajie as the Nostradamus of this age, saying there has never been anything he predicted that did not happen; hence it is an opportunity to listen to his message for the year. Anosike frowned at the monthly ritual of going to Abuja for sustainability of states, saying: “We can do without Abuja; we must take our time, think of what to do and how to go about it, internally first, so that whatever that comes from Abuja becomes a bonus. “Anambra has capacity of forgetting Abuja and doing our own thing. It is because of this monthly sharing of cake at Abuja that makes most of the governors not to be aggressive in simple sources of raising funds for development.” He commended Governor Willie Obiano for regular payment of workers’ salaries and pensions, which is the basic hallmark of a responsive government.” The Igu-Aro was witnessed by dignitaries from parts of the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .