 Ademola Olajire  The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has revealed that players listed for Nigeria’s 2022 African Cup of Nations qualifier against Squirrels of Benin Republic slated for March 22 will not be subjected to Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) quarantine rules for people arriving from overseas countries, especially England and South Africa. The NCDC rule states that such arrivals must be tested for COVID-19 and quarantined for a while before being integrated to the society. NFF Media Director, Ademola Olajire, told The Guardian yesterday that every player invited for the AFCON qualifier would be tested on COVID-19 on arrival in the country, but would not be quarantined because it would not be possible for them to get to camp two weeks before the match. Olajire revealed that the federation is working Coach Gernot Rohr, who is already in the country, for the success of the qualifier. “The Super Eagles will camp in Nigeria before departing for Benin Republic. This is the normal routine of the team.
“We will write to the necessary agencies on the arrival of the overseas-based players. Everything is under control… Rohr is already in the country planning ahead of the game. “I will like to also officially inform football loving Nigerians that Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos will host the Eagles AFCON qualifier against Lesotho on March 30,” he said. Eagles need a draw against the Squirrels on March 22 to qualify for next year’s African Cup of Nations. Recall that the recent identification of a new variant of the coronavirus in some countries has forced Nigerian health officials to impose additional restrictions on international travelers entering the country. Now passengers from the United Kingdom and South Africa are required to obtain and present pre-departure permit to fly and a QR code confirming they have booked a COVID-19 test on the seventh day of their trip in Nigeria. Additionally, all travelers from the UK or South Africa must provide a negative COVID-19 Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test results from an exam taken within 96 hours prior to boarding. Upon arrival passengers, whose point of origin is from either the UK or South Africa will be processed by the public health authorities separately from those individuals arriving from other destinations. Assuming the NCDC stand their ground, Super Eagles players based in South Africa and England, including Alex Iwobi, Kelechi Iheanacho, Ola Aina, Daniel Akpeyi, and William Troost-Ekong, among others, could be ruled out of the tie.
Nigeria currently leads the AFCON qualifier group with a point ahead of Benin Republic. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .