After getting his season underway at last week’s Etoile de Besseges, with a 4th & 3rd place on the opening two stages, our European Champion Giacomo Nizzolo will take aim at tomorrow's 183km Clasica de Almeria.  There will be a few climbs to deal with in the opening 100km of the race, but the final 75km back to Roquetas de Mar will be mostly flat and fast. A power lineup has been assembled around Nizzolo, with fast men Max Walscheid and Matteo Pelucchi also looking to play key roles in the late final. Carlos Barbero, Sean Bennett, Victor Campenaerts and Emil Vinjebo complete our 7-rider line-up. Thank you to our long-time supporter, Sally Cruickshanks for helping to announce (https://bit.ly/2ZgUC0B) our Clasica de Almeria team. Alex Sans Vega – Sport Director
Our team is looking forward to tomorrow's Clasica de Almeria. Giacomo showed last week already that he has come into the season at a level where he can already be competitive in some tough sprints. Our expectation is that tomorrow could be such a type of race, so with a strong team here we will be fully committed to racing for the win. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka ASSOS. Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About Team Qhubeka ASSOS:
Team Qhubeka ASSOS (TeamQhubeka.com) is a purpose-led, high-performance team, fighting to win on the world's biggest stage, to inspire hope and create opportunity. Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka ASSOS (formerly NTT Pro Cycling) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in six Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. There are 19 nationalities represented across our World Tour and continental feeder team rosters. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage, since the team's inception. We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 30 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .