In making the world a better place for everyone, Oyewole Oyeleke, author of the book, Greet, has insisted that it is important people show courtesy towards those they share space with and those that seem less important to them. Speaking at the launch of the book in Lagos recently, he noted, “when we greet and treat people with respect, we make them feel good about themselves. Our manners broadcast our nature and can chart the path to our destiny. This means that if not properly managed, our manners could deprive us of vital opportunities and advantages in life. We can get attention and favour from the least expected places and people because of some rare but endearing virtues we possess. Indeed a major paradox of life is that it is those character traits that many people are not mindful of that make the difference in our lives and hold the key to our success. Such attributes could be as simple as a greeting, a soothing word, or a kind gesture — and yet they could make all the difference.” On the reason for writing the book, the author said: “The book is for everybody. It is not just about how to greet or say good morning or hi but character and our commitment to doing the right things. The book came as an inspiration from the society I grew up in and travelling around the world. I saw that how people relate to one another bring about success and great relationships in marriages and homes and business and that is how I want this book to go all around the world so that people will build homes, marriages, contacts, clients even the people living around them and the world at large. Greet is very important for every home. “Parents said after their children read the book, they started behaving better at home and school. Teachers and lectures have testified that the book has brought so much sanity in the school, how students relate with themselves and their teachers. And that is why it is recommended for everybody,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .