 Vicar of St. Barnabas Anglican Church, Awodiora, Diocese of Lagos, Ven. Ifeanyi Nriama (left); Recipient of Keke Marwa, Samuel Okonkwo; Chairman, Ojoto Development Town Union, (ODTU), Lagos Chapter, Alexander Agwuna; Chairman Emeritus, ODTU, Kenneth Okezie Okonkwo and Public Relations Officer, ODTU, Ifeabata Ojoto during the handover of Keke Marwa to Indigent Indigenes of Ojoto Community in Lagos yesterday… 		     PHOTO: ADAKU ONYENUCHEYA<br />  Okonkwo had engaged in menial job miles away from his home, as he struggled to make N500 daily to feed his family. The elated Okonkwo said: “Life has not been easy for me. I have been doing a menial job for a long time. I have developed health issues due to the hard nature of the job. I make N10 per load I carry from the truck to the market or warehouse. I carry as many cartons so I can make enough money, but I manage to make a maximum of N1, 000 per day and I come from a very far distance, which cost me N700, including feeding. “By the time I finish for the day, I do not have enough money to take back home. I have three children, one will gain admission into secondary school this year, the other two are in primary school. Paying for their school fees has not been easy. It has been difficult. Only God knows how I manage to raise money to feed my family and pay for my children’s school fees.” With palpable tears of joy in his eyes, Okonkwo said he requested assistance from Ojoto Development Town Union, Lagos chapter, as a member and narrated his suffering. He was surprised to witness a show of love from the union as they empowered him with the tricycle. “I feel happy and relieved. I called the union and they answered me. The union stepped in and asked if I knew how to drive, to which I said no. They sent me to driving school, which I learnt. They donated funds for me and bought the Keke Marwa, which they handed over to me today,” he said. Speaking to The Guardian, the chairman, Ojoto ODTU, Lagos chapter, Alexander Agwuna, said it was the union’s way of expressing love to people in need, adding that its goal was to alleviate poverty and unemployment among the people. “We have helped one of our faithful members. We showed him, love, by giving him this means of transportation to help him alleviate poverty. He has always been a good member and deserves the best”. “We gave him free and did all the documentation for him to start plying on the road immediately. ODTU loves and gives to indigent members. We want to eradicate poverty and unemployment among us. I urge him to take his work seriously and progress in order to help others in need,” he said. Also, the Vicar of St. Barnabas Anglican Church, Diocese of Lagos, Awodiora, Ven. Ifeanyi Nriama, who preached about love during the valentine season, said the tricycle given to Okonkwo was a perfect example of God’s love. The chairman Emeritus, ODTU, Kenneth Okezie Okonkwo, said the government could not do everything, which was why the union empowered Okonkwo with the tricycle. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .