2,792 others arrested for sexual violence Seven suspects have been arrested by the police high command over alleged multiple abduction and child pornography. Two of the suspects allegedly engaged in international child pornography were nabbed by operatives of the Interpol National Central Bureau, Abuja. The Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, identified the Kano-based child pornography suspects as Ibrahim Muazzam Mohammad Aminu and Mohammad Tahir Umar. They were accused of taking advantage of underage girls whom they sexually abused, made video recordings of their acts and shared on an international social media WhatsApp group chat known as ‘Pervertidos,’ owned and managed by a Brazilian called Adriana. Their arrest followed intelligence received from the INTERPOL NCB, Brasilia. According to Mba: “Exhibits recovered from the suspects included three mobile phones and a laptop computer. Forensic investigations/analysis carried out by the police team on the gadgets revealed the series of pornographic/erotic videos with underage girls which the suspects shared on the internet for a fee denominated in US dollars. Similarly, the police also disclosed the arrest of five suspects by operatives of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) headed by DCP Abba Kyari following massive manhunt by the police for the perpetrators of the recent trend of abduction of women in some states in the south-south region of the country, especially Port Harcourt and its environs. “The victims are subjected to series of sexual abuses and ransom demanded from their families before their release. The suspects are Osinachi Ngwakwe, 22, from Ubaka Community in Umahia South LGA, Abia State; Sammy Junior Inordee, ‘alias T-Boy, 27, from Gwarra Community in Khana LGA, Rivers State; Epo-Bari Nwolu, 26, from Ogale Community in Eleme, LGA, Rivers State; Yabari Gbarale, 29, from Gwara community, Khana LGA, Rivers State and Barine Yilda, 30, called Albino or Yellow from Gwara community, Khana LGA, Rivers State. It was revealed that the suspects targeted lone female drivers of Porsche cars as they drive out of offices, shopping malls or any vulnerable places. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .