 Secondus  National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus, has told the All Progressives Congress (APC) to stop wooing PDP members, but focus on resolving security issues. Secondus, who led members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of PDP to the former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode (FFK), said: “We want to advise our brothers from the other side, especially some of these governors and leaders of APC, that they should face the business of governance, as jumping around and looking for critical stakeholders of our party to poach will not resolve the issue of security or economy. “Security and economy have broken down. They should face that business with which they were elected. I believe that this country belongs to all of us and we need unity to move it forward.” Assuring that FFK will not leave PDP, the PDP boss said: “Our brother is firm and a man of his word. There is no amount of trick that will make him sway otherwise. He is firm with PDP and we are back to business while preparing for 2023.” The former aviation minister disclosed that he had never left the PDP, adding that whatever the problem was, it had been resolved. Expressing delight for the visit, he said they had a very fruitful meeting. His words: “We had a very extensive and fruitful meeting. I never left the PDP. I am in PDP and am proud to be here. “Whatever is happening in the country, the best thing for us to do is to build bridges across party, regional, ethnic and religious lines. So that we will all be glad to have a country that we can call our own.” On his part, the Minister of Special Duties, Tanimu Turaki, said: “Let it be known to all and sundry that we are united; we are together. FFK is still in PDP, will continue to be in PDP and will remain in PDP.” Earlier, the National Auditor of PDP, Mai Adamu Mustapha, had cleared the air on the allegation against Secondus. Addressing journalists at the party’s secretariat, Mustapha said that the memo he presented to the NWC was mischievously misrepresented in the media, ostensibly to achieve a sinister purpose against the party. It was alleged in the report that Secondus misappropriated funds meant for the party and did not give an account of spending. [d] Mustapha said: “For the avoidance of doubt, all the issues raised in the memo were exhaustively deliberated in the NWC meeting. The deliberation was conclusive because, on all the items raised, approvals were sought and granted by both the NWC and the National Executive Committee (NEC) of our great party. “l want to state clearly that I did not make any allegation of any form of financial impropriety against the national chairman, neither did I allege any form of misdemeanor on any member of the NWC. “The NWC is not divided, as we are working in the collective interest of our party.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .