Babagana Zulum Borno State Governor, Babagana Zulum, has rewarded Dr. Isa Akinbode with N13.9m and a car for serving the state government for 22 years in the healthcare delivery sector. According to the governor, the 64-year-old medical doctor from Ogun State lived and served at the Monguno General Hospital for those years. While addressing some hospital staff at the weekend in Monguno, Zulum said: “You continued to render healthcare delivery services to the people, despite threats of Boko Haram terrorism that claimed many lives.” He said the Ogun indigene graduated from the University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID), joined the Borno State Civil Service and retired at the hospital in 2016. The doctor was reportedly abducted and released by Boko Haram in Monguno, but he remained in the state to serve the people at the hospital. Former governor of Borno, Kashim Shettima, during his visit to Monguno, had directed the Ministry of Health to engage Akinbode on contract basis. However, due to bureaucracy, officials of the ministry delayed the formalisation of the contract until Zulum’s visit last Friday. The governor, therefore, paid him N13.9 million salary arrears, based on the terms of the contract directed by the former governor in 2016. He also directed that the contract should be formalised for the payment of monthly entitlements. Besides formalising the contract, Zulum presented Dr. Akinbode a Toyota Highlander car for his services. Zulum said: “People like Dr. Akinbode are the ones needed to be encouraged. He lives in Monguno despite all the security challenges to serve in the council.” “We’re paying his all his entitlements, including salary arrears. I’m giving him a cheque of N13.9 million. I’ve also approved his re-engagement from 2016 being his retirement date.” He also approved the employment of Akinbode’s daughter, who studied Public Administration at the University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID), into the state’s civil service.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .