 Super Eagles Skipper Ahmed Musa has failed to earn a West Brom deal  After more than 20 years outside the Centre of Excellence, Nigeria’s leading sports brand, Super Eagles, are set to make a sensational return to Lagos next month. Yesterday, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) disclosed that the Super Eagles will camp in Lagos ahead of their Cameroun 2022 African Cup of Nations qualifier against Benin Republic in Cotonou, adding that the team will also play their last qualifying tie against Lesotho at the Sportscity. The Squirrels will host Super Eagles on March 22, 2021. The last time the Super Eagles played a competitive match in Lagos was 20 years ago when they beat Zambia 1-0 in an Africa Cup of Nations qualifier on January 13, 2001, at the National Stadium. According to the NFF, the Super Eagles will camp in Lagos to prepare for the African Cup of Nations tie before travelling to the Benin Republic a few days to the game. MEANWHILE, English Premiership side, West Brom, have reportedly opted against handing a deal to Super Eagles Skipper, Ahmed Musa, after having the Nigerian international train at the club, reports dailymail.co.uk. According to the Express and Star, the Baggies have had the 28-year-old training with them since last week in a bid to prove his fitness. But it appears that after seeing him at close quarters, manager Sam Allardyce has decided against signing the attacker. Sportsmail reported earlier this week that West Brom might not be able to stretch their wage budget to sign Musa after a busy January window. Albion brought in Ainsley Maitland-Niles from Arsenal, Okay Yukuslu from Celta Vigo, Mbaye Diagne from Galatasaray plus Robert Snodgrass and Andy Lonergan last month. Musa is a free agent after his deal with Saudi Arabian side Al-Nassr had expired. 
The 28-year-old has also previously been linked with some of West Brom’s Premier League rivals in Burnley, Southampton, Brighton. Russian side CSKA Moscow are also understood to be either willing to make him an offer or inviting him in to train with them instead. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .