 TunesBid  This expansion has brought about a new platform, TunesBid, which tends to create opportunities for emerging artists and their established counterparts as they now have a medium where their crafts would be fruitfully rewarded. TunesBid coming into the music game has been defined as a breath of fresh air that would galvanise dreams and aspirations of music artistes with the bid to creating wealth and providing the needed platform where their talents can be rewarded. Beyond downloading and streaming of songs to the selling albums and sustaining musical popularity, there appears to be no limit to what TunesBid is bringing to the table for music artistes across the African continent. The platform will also come as a significant boost to many music practitioners who are not restricted in their music style. Genres such as Afrobeat, Hip-hop, R & B, Dancehall, Gospel, House and others are available on the platform for auction. With registration free on the platform, many practitioners have expressed their excitement at such digital development, remarking that the gap between singers and producers has been significantly bridged while guaranteeing financial reward for efforts. Observers alike have also reacted to TunesBid as a long-awaited game-changer for music producers and songwriters. Speaking on the launch of TunesBid, Precious ‘Mo’ Okolie, popularly known as Oga Situp, stated that the digital product is set to change the game for African producers and songwriters. According to Oga Situp, the music industry is growing, and one must continue to evolve and key into its growth with technological solutions to what was hitherto believed to be impossible. “The platform was created to help Nigerian and African Producers and songwriters make money from their crafts; at the same time, make afrobeat accessible to recording artistes who seek the sound daily worldwide. There’s been a huge gap in that regard. “Afrobeat is the hottest sound in the world right now so there was a need to create a platform that would export the raw instrumentals and vibes to other parts of the world for easy access.”