Ahmad Lawan: Photo Twitter Lawmakers confirms Adolphus
Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, has expressed discontent with the Office of Auditor General of the Federation not been accorded its rightful status to function efficiently in the nation’s administration. He noted that in recent years, Economic and Financial Crimes commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) have been promoted as lead anti-graft agencies, higher than the auditor general that is supposed to be the prime anti-corruption authority. Lawan made the comment, yesterday, in his remarks after the Upper Legislative Chamber confirmed President Muhammadu Buhari’s nomination of Aghughu Adolphus for appointment as auditor-general. According to the Senate president, if the auditor general is given his rightful place, there would be little or no need for the anti-graft agencies like EFCC and ICPC, they would only be doing complimentary functions. “Actually, with the auditor general being made to be efficient, you may not even need EFCC, not even ICPC. If you want to leave them, they cannot take precedence over the auditor general, which appears to be the case today. “We have achieved so much by giving the auditor general the financial autonomy which he requires, but I think we can do better as a government. “The headquarters where the auditor general with some of his staffers work is still not a befitting one. He needs office accommodation like the Treasury House, the EFCC office complex, where he can accommodate all his staff and deploy them to go to the MDA’s and carry out their auditing jobs and return”. “The practice where some of the auditors are resident in offices where they are supposed to audit is unacceptable. We need to do a lot more to support the auditor general to be more effective and more efficient,” Lawan said. He urged National Assembly and the executive arm of government to ensure that the auditor-general remains truly autonomous. The confirmation of Adolphus was sequel to presentation and consideration of a report of Committee on Public Accounts by the Chairman, Urhoghide Mathew (PDP Edo) which found the nominee qualified to be appointed given his experiences, pedigree and performance over the years at the audit house. Also yesterday, the 2021 budget proposal for Nigeria Police Trust Fund transmitted to the Senate by President Buhari for consideration and passage, was brought to the notice of senators. Lawan read, at plenary, the President’s request for Senate to consider the Police Trust Fund budget in a letter which accompanied the proposal. The Buhari’s request was made pursuant to provisions of the Nigeria Police Trust Fund Act which provides for funding through a special intervention fund.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .