Toyin Abraham and Broda Shaggi in Fate of Alakada | Image: IMDb Toyin Abraham’s comedy film sequel “Fate of Alakada” has been acquired by Netflix. The film would be made available for streaming on the platform on a yet to be announced date. The Nigerian filmmaker/actress, who said she was so excited for the new development, took to her Instagram page @toyin_abraham to announce to her fans and loved ones, urging them to subscribe and renew their Netflix subscriptions. “Hello fam! I’m so happy to let you know that Netflix has got my movie, Fate of Alakada. So, to all my abroad fans and those who missed the chance to see it at the cinemas, please go and subscribe/renew your Netflix subscriptions now because Fate of Alakada is coming to Netflix soonest. “Tell one, tell all. I love you guys so much. Thanks for always supporting me. Ẹsé mo dúpẹ́,” she said. “Fate of Alakada” was directed by Kayode Kasum and had an impressive theatrical run, grossing over N100 million, in spite of the pandemic. would be premiered exclusively on Netflix on a yet to be confirmed date. The comedy sequel was co-produced by Mimi Bartels continues the hilarious journey of Yetunde (Toyin Abraham) alongside Instagram comedian, Broda Shaggi. It is the fifth instalment in her favourite “Alakada” film franchise. Netflix, Inc. is an American over-the-top content platform and production company headquartered in Los Gatos, California and was founded in 1997 by Reed Hastings and Marc Randolph in Scotts Valley, California. The company’s primary business is a subscription-based streaming service offering online streaming from a library of films and television series, including those produced in-house. Toyin Abraham is a film actress, filmmaker, director and a producer as well. She began acting in 2003, when Bukky Wright, a Nigerian film actress, visited Ibadan to shoot a film. The actress has produced, directed and featured in several Nigerian films, such as “Alani Baba Labake “Ebimi ni” “The Millions”, “Kasanova” “Bling Lagosians” “Nimbe” “The Ghost and the Tout” “Seven and Half Dates” among others.