President Muhammadu Buhari has assured Nigerians that last Friday’ abduction of female students from Government Girls Science Secondary School, Jangebe, will be the last to happen. The president’s statement was relayed on Sunday, through Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, who led a high-powered federal government delegation to sympathise with the people and government of Zamfara. He said new measures had been developed by the federal government which would bring a complete end to all forms of criminality in the nation. Humaira Mustapha, whose 2 daughters were kidnapped by gunmen at the Government Girls Secondary School, cries at her home, the day after the abduction of over 300 schoolgirls in Jangebe, a village in Zamfara State, northwest of Nigeria on February 27, 2021. - More than 300 schoolgirls were snatched from dormitories by gunmen in the middle of the night in northwestern Zamfara state on February 26, in the third known mass kidnapping of students since December. (Photo by Kola Sulaimon / AFP)  “Buhari also commended Gov. Bello Matawalle of Zamfara’s efforts against armed banditry and promised continued support to bring lasting peace. “The federal government will continue its partnership with the Zamfara government and its citizens in resolving the security challenges facing the state,” Buhari said. In his response, Gov. Matawalle appreciated Buhari and the federal government’s concern, noting that very soon the abductees would regain their freedom. “I strongly believe in the president and his effort in fighting all forms of insurgence and urge him to improve on the nation’s security. ”This is by ensuring synergy among the security agencies so that confrontations with criminals can be coordinated on ground and air simultaneously,” the governor said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that other members of the delegation were the Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Maigari Dingyadi, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, Hajiya Sa’adiya Umar-Faruk and Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Tallen.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .