Fela Anikulapo-Kuti At Orchestra Hall, Detroit 1986 Late Afrobeat pioneer Fela Anikulapo Kuti has been nominated for the 2021 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. The Nigerian musical icon was announced today February 10, 2021, alongside Mary J. Blige, Kate Bush, Devo, Foo Fighters, The Go-Go’s, Iron Maiden, Jay-Z, Chaka Khan, Carole King, LL Cool J, New York Dolls, Rage Against the Machine, Todd Rundgren, Tina Turner and Dionne Warwick. Congratulations to the #RockHall2021 Nominees! Read more about this list and the 2021 Induction at https://t.co/iL9HlcGbDd pic.twitter.com/HWaQzuPsS3 — Rock Hall (@rockhall) February 10, 2021  According to the chairman of the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Foundation, John Skyles, “This remarkable ballot reflects the diversity and depth of the artists and music the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame celebrates. “These Nominees have left an indelible impact on the sonic landscape of the world and influenced countless artists that have followed them.” Fela Kuti performs onstage at the Riviera Theater, Chicago, Illinois, November 13, 1986. PHOTO: PAUL NATKIN/Getty Images) If Kuti wins, he will make history as the first Nigerian artist in the Rock and Roll hall of fame. Fela Kuti is remembered as an influential icon who was brave enough to boldly voice his opinions on matters that affected the nation through his music. At the height of his popularity, he was referred to as one of Africa’s most “challenging and charismatic music performers.” To be eligible, an individual artist or band must have released its first commercial recording at least 25 years prior to the year of nomination. Fans vote for up to five nominees daily from today till the 30th of April on the Rock Halls website while the winners of the 36th Annual Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony which will take in Cleveland, Ohio will be inducted in May 2021. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame is a museum and hall of fame located in Ohio, United States. The museum documents the history of rock music and the artists, producers, engineers, and other notable figures who have influenced its development.