 Rochas Okorocha  The crusade attracted the participation of the Bayelsa State governor, Douye Diri; former governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha and first-time visitor and chairman, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Imo State Chapter, Bishop Titus Akanabu, with executive members of the group, among others. Governor Diri and Okorocha after receiving prayers from the church’s General Overseer, Pastor Lazarus Muoka, left the venue without speaking with the media. But in a dramatic turn, Okorocha returned to the podium with 11-year-old Chinaraekele Winner Olisakwe, a primary five pupil in Aba, Abia State, whose mother is partially blind, and whom Chinaraekele was leading around. Okorocha said when he saw the boy, something told him the boy needed help. And right there on the podium, the former governor announced that he would finance his education from primary to university level. Handing the boy over to Muoka, Okorocha requested that the boy be brought to his house. Before leaving, he also announced a donation of N200, 000 to enable Olisakwe’s mother to start a business. Senator Okorocha, representing Imo West in the National Assembly, received a loud ovation from the crowd, when he said, “I am a Chosen and will remain a Chosen.” He said: “As I sat down there, listening to your sermon and prayers, my eye made contact with the boys. Something about this boy just drew me to him. This is the mother, who said she is not seeing well. GO, please I want to keep this boy and I want to hand him over to you. Please, bring this boy to me and I will take care of his education up to university level…” The boy’s mother, Sister Ndidiamaka Olisakwe, a trader, who has two boys and two girls, resides in Aba with her family. She described Chinaraekele Olisakwe as the apple of her eyes, saying the gesture came to her as a surprise. She was full of gratitude to God, Okorocha and the church for the kind gesture. She said the boy had always desired to be in Chosen School, but there was no money to train him. Before leaving, Bishop Akanabu spoke with journalists. The Bishop was happy that God has deposited so much in Pastor Muoka’s life. According to him, the cleric has used the values deposited in him to liberate God’s people from the devil’s shackles. Speaking on the theme: “What God has determined shall be done,” Muoka congratulated the people, saying they have chosen the right path to follow the Lord this year. He said 2021 is full of uncertainties, but only God can determine what happens in the New Year and not man. While quoting Exodus 18:9; Gen. 18:9 to buttress his point, the General Overseer reminded the congregation that God is the only one that can do what no man can do. As such, following God, this year is the best decision for Nigerians, as they abandon their old ways. The cleric warned Chosen members worldwide to stop using his image as a symbol of prayer. He urged members to pray to God, using the name of Jesus and should exhibit unwavering faith in God, Who alone answers prayer. Femi Adewole told The Guardian, “What happened in the days of Israelites is what is happening here, and this is just the beginning, compared to what we have seen because this is the End Time.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .