A Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Oyo State Chapter, yesterday, chided President Muhammadu Buhari over insecurity in Yorubaland, especially in Oyo State. In a statement signed by its Secretary, Dauda Adam and Publicity Secretary, Jare Ajayi, the association said that at no time in history had the nation been enveloped in this type of insecurity. “By history, we are not just referring to the history of Nigeria, which began in 1914. Our usage of history here includes the period before the entity called Nigeria was formed,” the group said. The group stated that the situation was now such that no day without reports of extra-judicial killings, kidnappings, raping and all sorts of banditry. It also condemned in strong terms the wanton destruction of life and property of the people by Fulani herdsmen who graze their cattle on farmlands and deal violent blows on whoever challenges them. The socio-cultural organisation berated the Federal Government, especially under President Muhammadu Buhari, for allowing this horrible situation to fester each passing day. It then called for the immediate prosecution of the bandits and other criminals. The body, therefore, advocated a prompt restructuring of the security architecture of Nigeria with a view to vesting the security of each state exclusively in the hands of the state governors and local council chairmen in their respective spheres of influence. Besides, it urged governors in Yorubaland to engage traditional rulers and major civil-based organisations in their respective states with a view to incorporating local strategies in whatever security arrangement they are making, adding that such organisations must be knowledgeable about their areas and willing to join hands with the government to bring the situation under control.” The group also urged Governor Seyi Makinde to continue his consultations with all stakeholders in the state to halt security breaches as soon as possible. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .