 Ondo PDP governorship aspiration Dr. Eddy Olafeso PHOTO: Facebook  The leadership rumpus in the South-West geo-political zone of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has taken a dramatic turn as majority of the members in the six states endorsed Dr. Eddy Olafeso as the National Vice Chairman. Aside supporting Olafeso for a second term against the camp of Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, they also backed the candidacy of Rev. Bunmi Jenyo as Zonal Secretary. A meeting was held in Akure, yesterday, at the Alagbaka residence of Olafeso in preparation for the PDP zonal congress in the South-West under the leadership and tutelage of former Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose. Meanwhile, a formidable caucus of the party had met on same issue in the Lagos State residence of Fayose on Tuesday, scheming on how to return Fayose and Jenyo as zonal leaders. The PDP caucus meeting in Akure, which was held behind closed-doors, was a consolidation meeting to begin mobilisation of members across the six states of the South-West geo-political zone for the aforementioned candidates. It was massively attended by PDP stalwarts who agreed to a communique signed by the Zonal Caretaker Secretary, Daisi Akintan, alongside chairmen of Osun, Ekiti, Lagos and Ogun states, namely: Sunday Bisi, Bisi Kolawole, Adedeji Doherty and Dr. Sikirulai Ogundele respectively. They warned the party’s National Organising Secretary, Col. Austin Akobundu and his office against manipulation of the delegates’ list, declaring that “the South-West PDP is not up for sale.” The caucus directed its members to shun invitation to any meeting called by former Osun State governor, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, saying: “Such meetings are self-serving and for personal gains.” The leaders lauded Fayose for his leadership roles across the region and commended him for his strong commitment to PDP in the South-West, and Nigeria at large. The communique read in part: “At our meeting held today under the leadership of our indefatigable leader, Dr. Ayo Fayose, due attention was accorded to developments across the zone and the need to give proper attention to challenges in all the six states of zone was adopted. “We reviewed strategies and considered new party management tactics that will strategically enhance and promote the growth and strength of the PDP in the South-West Zone. “To this end, it was conclusively agreed that the immediate past executive of the zone under the leadership of Dr. Eddy Olafeso displayed enough competence and candour during its last tenure and as such further endorsed, to be returned for another tenure through the next zonal congress.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .