 [FILES] APC Banner  Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Anambra State, Chief Edith-Mike Ejezie, has said that only the party can guarantee the emergence of a south easterner as President of Nigeria in 2023. Ejezie gave the assurance yesterday while addressing her supporters shortly after revalidating her membership of the APC at Ihite Ward 4, Ihiala Council of Anambra. She charged APC members and Anambra people to ensure victory for the party at the November 6 gubernatorial election in the state, adding that Anambra would be better off under the ruling party at the centre. Reminding Anambra people of the benefits of keying into the mainstream of national politics, she warned that they could no longer afford to be sidelined in the scheme of things at the national level. “We have been shortchanged not because we are not gifted but because we drifted away from the national political equation. APC is the party at the centre and it is time for Anambra to align with the party. “The time is now for the entire South-East to reposition and re-integrate if we are to achieve the Igbo Presidency in 2023. The APC is a national and largest party that is widespread and accepted in all the geo-political zones in Nigeria, and it is the right platform for us all,” she stated. The amazon urged the people of Ihiala, Anambra and the South East to use the opportunity of the ongoing APC membership registration and revalidation to embrace the party for the overall interest of the people and the zone.
FORMER Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika (rtd.), has joined the APC in Abia State. Abia APC Chairman, Donatus Nwankpa, confirmed that Ihejirika formally joined the party yesterday and was registered in his Ezere Ward 2, Ovim in Isukwuato Council, was conducted by the Ward Chairman, Mr. Iheanyi Chukwu, in the presence of some party stalwarts, including Senator Orji Uzor Kalu; State Secretary, Perfect Okorie; Deputy State Women Leader, Franca Osuwa; Chairman of Abia APC Re-registration Panel, Ambassador Bala Mairiga; House of Assemblymember representing Isuikwuato Constituency, Emeka Okorafor; Chief Ameobi Ogah, among others. After his registration, Ihejirika said he was delighted to join the party, adding that having served almost 38 years in the military, he was convinced that it would be a waste of experience for him to remain outside government activities, as he has a lot to offer. Senator Kalu, who is the APC leader in the state, commended Ihejirika’s decision to join the party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .