I Am Laycon | Image Showmax Big Brother Naija Season 5 winner, Lekan Agbeleshe, who is better known as Laycon, is set to star in Showmax’s first-ever Nigerian Original series, “I Am LAYCON”. The online subscription video-on-demand service on Friday announced that the rapper’s reality show would be launched on February 11, 2021 on its platform. Showmax’s Public Relations Officer in Nigeria, Onna Okafor said the series would be available to Showmax subscribers in the U.K., Italy, France, Australia and 23 other countries as well as across Africa. “I Am LAYCON” will follow Laycon as he settles into a life of stardom and chases his music career after the BBNaija house. The show will feature cameos from fellow Big Brother Naija Lockdown housemates including Lilo Aderogba and Victoria Adeyele, aka Vee. Speaking on the move to make “I Am LAYCON” available to an international audience, Yolisa Phahle, MultiChoice Group CEO of General Entertainment and Connected Video, says, “Big Brother Naija has a huge diaspora audience who followed Laycon’s journey while he was in the house. With the launch of his own reality show, it was important for us to make this content available to fans in as many countries as possible.” Speaking of his experience starring in his very own reality show, Laycon says, “Music, family and friendship are extremely important to me and I’m excited that my fans around the world can join me as I explore these different sides of me on I Am LAYCON.” “I Am LAYCON” will be available for streaming in Andorra, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. “We believe in the power of African stories and are leading the way in making sure that they can be enjoyed by the diaspora and a growing international audience who we believe will love Laycon’s universal story,” adds Phahle. 