Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) President Amaju Pinnick, has reiterated the federation’s commitment to improving the standard of the country’s football leagues. Pinnick, who said the NFF will not compromise in its efforts to put the local leagues at par with their top African and European counterparts, added that plans are on to introduce innovations that will revolutionise the country’s game. Speaking after a meeting to chart a more robust course for sustainability and improvement of the organisation of the various leagues, including the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), Nigeria National League (NNL), Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL) and the Nigeria Nationwide League One (NNLO), Pinnick said he was delighted with the broadcast and quality of production of NPFL matches on the Nigeria Television Authority and the NPFL.TV since the commencement of the new season. He promised the Federation would not allow any factor to derail the present gains as the NPFL season enters Week 10, and the NNL and NWFL matches also trudge on. In a statement by the NFF, Pinnick said, “It is time to look critically at certain niggling factors and ensure we tackle them decisively in order not to erode the gains we have been able to make.
 
“We must keep at what we are doing, maintain the standard and even strive for improvement where possible, and we can be sure that we will reap the gains in the coming seasons.”
 
He also assured that the Federation will do everything within its capacity to ensure that standard of officiating continues to improve, while safety, security and medical issues are given the utmost attention and seriousness.
 
There was a consensus at the meeting sustainability of good officiating and broadcast of the matches will solve most of the problems associated with the domestic game in previous years. Pinnick also warned officials of the various leagues to shun acts capable of putting the domestic game in bad light.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .