 African Union complex  It made the call at the inaugural ceremony of a two-day stakeholders’ consultative meeting on ‘Enhancing Efficiency, Growth and Sustainability towards Implementation of African Union Vision in Nigeria held in Abuja. At the forum held in collaboration with the Office of the Secretary to the Federal Government, ECOSOCC also honoured the Managing Director of Gulf Treasures Limited/Danco Investment and founder of Anamero Idofe Anamero Foundation, Anamero Dekeri, as the Role Model and Ambassador for the Implementation of African Union’s Agenda 2063. The awardee stressed the need for deeper relations between the AU and the national governments to address the socio-economic challenges facing the continent. Dekeri, who was recognised for his contribution to the development of the continent through his humanitarian activities, underscored the need for stakeholders and government at all levels to work closely to tackle the challenges facing Africa. He expressed appreciation to both the Union and the government for the award and promised that his foundation would continue to pay its part to advance good causes across Africa and promote the socio-economic wellbeing of the people. “I deeply appreciate this award. It is an honour I will never take for granted. My foundation will continue to play its part in advancing social justice,” he said. The council also listed conflict, economic challenges and lack of integration at all levels in the continent as issues militating against the growth of the continent. Speaking at the meeting, the Nigerian Representative of the Permanent General Assembly of ECOSOCC, Dr. Tunji Asaolu, lamented that insecurity and economic challenges have made the standard of living very difficult for the people of Africa, necessitating the intervention by AU. “The meeting wouldn’t have come in a better time than this considering the time we are in right now. I urge you to deeply be conscious of the importance, as well as the nobility of the purpose which has brought us here together. So much to deal with, from the eradication of poverty, illiteracy, underdevelopment, conflict and lack of integration at all levels in the continent, which is like a scourge that weighs like cancer, constantly undermining the progress of our people and the continent,” Asaolu stressed. Also speaking, the Director, International Organisation Department, Office of the Secretary to the Federal Government, Victoria Agbo, assured the stakeholders that the government would work closely with the regional union to improve the wellbeing of Nigerians. “The role of government in popularising the activities of the AU is mainly to facilitate. Following this, the government will continue to provide the required support, within the limit of its resources and mandate of advisory bodies, to ensure that we get the best out of our membership of the continental body,” she added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .