‘Revalidation, trump card for party’s unity’ 
Caretaker Committee Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State, Dr. Ben Nwoye, has said the party is ready to attend to anybody anytime, even at night, in the ongoing revalidation and registration exercise. Speaking shortly after revalidating his membership at his Afianwakpaka polling unit, in Amuri Ward, Nkanu West Council of the state, Nwoye said APC was ready to welcome all, including PDP members. “If you don’t want to come to register during the day, maybe because you are ashamed, we are ready and willing to register you in the night,” he said. Nwoye, who was recently appointed in the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission to represent South East, said the ongoing exercise was vital in the nation’s democratic process, because “for you to want to vie for any election, you must be a member of a registered political party.” Nwoye called on Nkanu West people to identify with the APC, “especially for the fact that we have benefitted from the party.” Chairman of APC Registration/Revalidation Committee in Enugu, Senator Jonathan Zwingina, expressed satisfaction with the level of enthusiasm being shown by members and stakeholders of the party in the state. MEANWHILE, former governorship candidate of APC in Abia State, Chief Ikechi Emenike, has expressed optimism that the current membership registration/revalidation exercise will ensure genuine reconciliation in the party. Emenike spoke to journalists shortly after renewing his membership at his Okpuala Umukabia country home in Umuahia North Council yesterday. He regretted APC’s poor performance in previous elections, stressing that internal contradictions and parochial interests undermined the party’s victory. Apart from enrolling many new members, Emenike described the revalidation exercise recommended by the Mai Mala Buni Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) as the best way to unite and reconcile members who were divided by quest for party offices and 2019 governorship ticket in the state. Recalling how APC won the presidential poll only to lose the governorship in Abia, Emenike said the most popular candidate was not nominated due to various schemes that worked against the party. He stated: “This exercise affords Abia APC an opportunity for a fresh start after suffering political misfortunes due to internal contradictions and other conniving factors against the party. “We, Abians, should use this ongoing membership re-validation and re-registration exercise to demonstrate our acceptance of APC and firm support to the Federal Government led by President Muhammadu Buhari.” He urged APC members to put aside the differences and work for the interest of the party.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .