 File photo Car accident Photo: Getty Images:  The charge was made at the just concluded annual management retreat of the firm. The group said it has partnered government at all levels to guarantee the sound roadworthiness of vehicles plying Nigerian roads. Rising from the three days retreat, which held in Abuja with the theme ‘Greater Workforce for Sustainability’, MD/CEO of TGL, Prince Segun Obayendo, said the retreat, which hosted top management staff and key executives of the company, was to x-ray some of the causes of road accidents with a view of proffering solution. The MD/CEO noted that among the inspections carried out at any of the computerised vehicle inspection centres are emission, headlamps test, brake efficiency, steering and alignment tests, visual inspection to check for safety requirements in vehicles, and underneath inspection to check for chassis and frame of vehicles. He stated that the objective was to ensure that vehicle owners and other road users ply the roads with minimal mechanical defects of accidents. “If these mechanical components are deemed roadworthy after the inspection, it contributes to reduction in the rate of accidents and carnages on the roads,” he said. CVIS is currently operational in 22 states in the country including Abuja, Lagos, Oyo, Anambra, Ebonyi, Akwa Ibom, Kaduna, Nasarawa and Ondo. Continuing, Obayendo assured staff members of sustainability. He said: “Last year was a defining moment for us as a group. Right from the headquarters here in Abuja to the coastal city of Lagos, we weren’t totally immune to the destruction occasioned by COVID-19 and its cousin, the #EndSARS protests, which rocked the country to its foundation. “As we emerge from the ashes of these destructions into the bright sunlight, we are confronted with the reality that this business will only triumph when its workforce is in full control of all the opportunities to improve its capacities and capabilities at its disposal.” The retreat featured speakers like global human resources influencer and ISO31000 certified lead manager, Mr Adeyemi Ajayi, Senate and senior faculty member, Pan African University, Dr Segun Vincent, London Business School Alumni, Dr Maxwell Ubah, Personal Development Trainer, Mr Obinnaya Uruakpa, among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .