The National Association Of Aircraft Pilot And Engineers (NAAPE) has called on the Federal Government to provide employee support fund to cushion effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on workers in the sector. The union also urged government on stable policies, quick mediation in labour cases within the industry, training of aviation personnel and reduction in airport charges among others. These were part of participants’ recommendations in a communiqué issued at the end of a symposium organised by NAAPE in Akwa Ibom state with theme, “Labour Relations in a Pandemic: Challenges to Employer and Employee”. While commending government for supporting airlines with palliatives, they requested for more government’s support particularly in accessing forex, owing to the enormous losses the airlines suffered. The communiqué also emphasised the need for employers in the aviation sector to maintain and always ensure the sanctity of all
labour laws and the fundamental human rights of workers, especially the right to belong to a union. During the symposium, participants condemned sacking of workers by their employers, stressing that the pandemic situation was neither the making of the employer nor the employee. However, it urged that employees should show understanding with employers through concessions to ensure continued survival of their organisations. The participants deliberated that institutions of industrial relations must also help in formulating policies and procedures that would help mitigate the effects of the pandemic on both the employers and employees. Participants such as captains in the aviation sector, administrators, professionals in the aviation QDB sector, who were present at the symposium witnessed the launch of AVIAN, a database for all pilots and aircraft maintenance engineers and designed to serve as a pool for aviation professionals. It is a one-stop shop for employers that will also help policy makers determine skill gaps in the aviation industry for good policy decisions. The communiqué added that NAAPE in conjunction with AIRTECH developed the database.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .