Marilyn Manson Dropped By Record Label After Claims Of Sexual Abuse Marilyn Manson has responded to allegations that he was abusive to his ex Evan Rachel Wood after he was dropped by his record label in a report by The Huffington Post. The musician said the claims were “horrible distortions of reality,” after the actor publicly named the musician on Instagram and said he began “grooming” her when she was a teenager and “horrifically abused me for years”. Wood, star of the TV sci-fi series Westworld and Disney’s Frozen II, was briefly engaged to Manson, whose real name is Brian Warner, in 2010. Amid a growing backlash, the 52-year-old singer responded on Monday night, insisting his relationships “have always been entirely consensual”. Posting on Social Media, he wrote: Obviously, my art and my life have long been magnets for controversy, but these recent claims about me are horrible distortions of reality. My intimate relationships have always been entirely consensual with like-minded partners. Regardless of how – and why – others are now choosing to misrepresent the past, that is the truth. Following Wood’s allegations and those of other women who came forward, Loma Vista Recordings said it was no longer working with Manson. In a statement, they wrote: In light of today’s disturbing allegations by Evan Rachel Wood and other women naming Marilyn Manson as their abuser, Loma Vista will cease to further promote his current album, effective immediately. Due to these concerning developments, we have also decided not to work with Marilyn Manson on any future projects. Also, US TV network Starz said Manson’s guest appearance in fantasy drama American Gods will be removed from an upcoming episode. Due to the allegations made against Marilyn Manson, we have decided to remove his performance from the remaining episode he is in, scheduled to air later this season. Starz stands unequivocally with all victims and survivors of abuse. Manson found fame in the 1990s and became known for his distinctive appearance.