The Defence Headquarters, yesterday, said that the recent changes in the leadership of the Armed Forces of Nigeria would usher new methodology in the counter-insurgency war. It said the new service chiefs had already hit the ground running with a visit to all operational areas across the country. Co-ordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, stated this during the weekly media briefing with Defence Correspondents. According to him, “you are all aware of the recent changes in the leadership of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. There is no doubt the changes would usher in new modus operandi for tackling the security challenges in the country. “The service chiefs, on the assumption of duty, immediately hit the ground running by conducting an operational visit to the North-East. They have also visited some operational areas in the country to interact with troops and commanders in the field in the various theatres. It is aimed at ensuring that the military High Command come up with new ways and means of tackling the security challenges.” “In line with the reorganisation of the Armed Forces of Nigeria with the appointment of new service chiefs, the operations of the Armed Forces is equally being reorganised to tackle the security challenges in the country effectively. “In this regard, the service chiefs led by the Chief of Defence Staff, Maj.-Gen. LEO Irabor (GSS), commenced an action at all levels. These include carrying out strategic, administrative, operational and logistics adjustments, changes and reviews, to improve the security situation in the country. As such, all stakeholders are requested to give maximum support to the Armed Forces of Nigeria under the leadership of the Chief of Defence Staff.” Besides, Enenche disclosed that in the North-West zone, “troops of Operation Hadarin Daji have continued to sustain their efforts in the zone progressively,” saying that the gallant troops, within the period in focus, carried out several land and air operations in the zone. This, he said, included clearance and ambush operations, as well as aggressive ground and aerial patrols to ensure the security of life and property within the zone. Also, he said: “The Armed Forces of Nigeria working together with other security agencies have continued to sustain the onslaught against the insurgents. Within the period under review, troops of Operation Lafiya Dole on various occasions made contact and engaged some Boko Haram/Islamic State West Africa Province criminal elements.” In the South-South zone, Enenche said that troops of Operation Delta Safe had sustained the onslaught against economic sabotage.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .