Photocredit: Twitter// Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Nigeria. The Nigerian Government on Thursday said it would not tolerate another #Endsars protest in the country. Nigeria’s minister of information Lai Mohammed at a press conference said the government “strongly warn those who are planning to re-occupy Lekki Toll Gate on Saturday to desist.” Some Nigerian youths have scheduled a new protest tagged #OcuupyLekkiTollgate for Saturday over the handover of the Lekki toll gate, where Nigerian forces opened fire on unarmed protesters last October, to its owners Lekki Concession Company. Members of the judicial panel set up by the Lagos State government to investigate the October 2020 Lekki shooting voted 5-4 in favor of the handover on Saturday. The youth, however, kicked against this decision by the Judicial panel to hand over the toll gate back to LCC for repairs and to begin operations without granting justice to the victims of the October 20 incidents. Although, Mohammed said the government is aware that it is the constitutional right of citizens to protest but it would not tolerate any protest in the name of EndSars this time. “Security agents are ready for any eventuality,” Mohammed said. “The burnt wreckage of public buses that were wantonly set ablaze by rampaging hoodlums remain in their positions as a sad and gory reminder of the unprecedented attacks. The city is still reeling from the war-like destruction,” Mohammed said. “For those who are using justice as an alibi for another round of destruction, let me say this: As we speak, the Judicial Panels of Inquiry, set up across the country to receive and investigate complaints of police brutality or related extra-judicial killings with a view to delivering justice for all victims of the dissolved SARS and other police units, are continuing with the assignments.” The minister said the government has met up with the five demands of the protesters and expect anyone who has any information on the Lekki shooting to present it to the judicial panel. “A situation in which six soldiers and 37 policemen were murdered in cold blood by hoodlums will not repeat itself. The attack, looting and razing of 269 private and public property will not happen again,'” Mohammed said. “The killing of 57 civilians will not be re-enacted.” He said “no government anywhere will allow a repeat of the kind of destruction, killing and maiming wrought by the hijackers of EndSars protests last year.” “After all, only one policeman – (plus four others) – was killed in the invasion of the US Capitol in January, yet the FBI has continued to hunt down and prosecute the perpetrators. No life is more important than the other,” Mohammed said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .