 Publisher, Lady Maiden Alex-Ibru  Ibru made the commendation when she, alongside two other publishers, visited Okowa at the Government House Asaba on Thursday, to condole with him on the passing of Pa. Arthur Okowa on Jan. 28. The Guardian publisher was in company of two other newspaper publishers from Delta, Nduka Obaigbena -Thisday and Sam Amuka of Vanguard. She said she was impressed with the “massive infrastructural upgrade in Delta, especially in Asaba, the state capital”.
According to her, Okowa’s success in his political career and his performance as governor is a reflection of his humble upbringing. Ibru urged the governor and the family to take solace in the fact that their late father, Pa Okorie Okowa, left indelible footprints in their lives and on humanity. On his part, Obaigbena said that the deceased octogenarian, who died at 88, valued education and gave his children the best of it. According to him, Pa Okowa was one of the last of the `originals’ who went the extra mile to ensure that their children get the best of education. “He was a great educationist who ensured that his children went to the best of schools which has helped them to become great achievers in life. “We have come with a strong delegation here to condole with you on this sad development and with pain in our hearts and smiles on our faces, we mourn with you,” Obaigbena said. The Vanguard Publisher, Amuka, urged the governor and his family to be consoled by the good deeds of their late father, adding that the publishers were with the family in thoughts and prayers throughout the mourning and burial period. Responding, Okowa expressed appreciation to the delegation for the visit, adding that he was consoled by the love and attention shown to him and family by friends and well-wishers. He described his late father as an accomplished teacher, politician of repute and an astute community leader who left indelible marks in the sands of time. “Let me register my appreciation to the gurus of newspaper publishing from our dear state.
“ I truly must thank you and I appreciate this visit. We are very encouraged for this visit knowing that it’s a visit by high calibre of persons. “Being a teacher helped my father to mould our lives at our very early ages which helped us to grow our lives to what we are today. “From the testimonies we gathered, we have been made to understand that he played much more roles than we knew because of the many lives he touched,” Okowa stated. The governor also received a delegation of members of the National Assembly from Delta led by Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Chief Ndudi Elumelu and expressed gratitude to them for the support. Elumelu had earlier told the governor that they were in Asaba on the condolence visit because they were pained by the demise of the patriarch of Okowa family. He said: “For us, his loss is not just for you and your family because he played key roles in the lives of so many people. “We lost a father because he was the father of the state; we believe in your leadership and we will stand with you during the funeral.” The lawmakers also condoled with the governor on the demise of Majority Leader of the Delta House of Assembly, Mr Tim Owhefere, who died on Jan. 27. Also delegations from Ika Nation led by Chief Dan Usifo, Urhobo Progress Union (UPU) led by the its 1st Deputy National President, Chief Anthony Onoharigho; members of Bendel Ecclesiastical Province of the Anglican Communion led by Archbishop Cyril Odutemu also visited the governor to condole with him. Others were delegations from Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) led by the National President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba and Nigeria Union of Journalists, Delta Council, led by its Chairman, Comrade Michael Ikeogwu.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .