 Oyinlola  Former Governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, has said that unity is the key weapon the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) can deploy to take over the Presidency from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 election. He said the PDP must be united to take over power following poor governance and failure of All Progressives Congress  (APC) to deliver on its promises. Oyinlola, who spoke, yesterday, at the South-West PDP reconciliation committee meeting with Lagos State stakeholders, said that he did not see reason PDP should not be united. According to him, “Our party was in power for 16 years but lost out because we refused to unite and unfortunately allowed gaps and power taken over from the party. Today, every Nigerian knows that the government of the PDP has never been equalled in terms of performance and keeping promises.” The former governor promised that the committee was going to consult with the five leaders of the party as requested by some members, noting: “One thing that must be done is to get to the root cause of the problem. We are mandated to get our report ready before the end of this month. I was once a military administrator of Lagos State and all the people involved are known to me. I have a step ahead in getting solution. I appeal to party members to co-operate with the committee so that we can bring our party to the winning line.” A member of Board of Trustees of the PDP, Dr. Remi Akitoye, lamented that a former governor of Ekiti State had been coming to Lagos State Chapter to cause confusion and that his attitude had allegedly been dividing the executive committee members of the party in Lagos. He stressed that external influence was the major cause of Lagos PDP problem. He prayed that God would give Oyinlola the wisdom to resolve the issue and reconcile the executives. MEANWHILE, a former Deputy National Chairman of PDP, Chief Olabode George, has urged critical stakeholders in and outside Nigeria, including leaders of Western World, to impress it on President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling APC to restructure the country. George, who spoke at the meeting, said that restructuring the country was not only a matter of necessity, but the urgency with which the steps needed to be taken could not be toyed with, “else the country risks disintegration or implosion.” He said: “We must restructure the Nigerian entity to ensure its survival as a nation. There are so many aberrations thwarting equitable governance in our country. The centre is too encumbered with many responsibilities. It is overburdened and stressed with unnecessary functions that ought to be devolved to the states. “Our federation is only a federation in name. It is more of a unitary system, barking out command and control like a military hierarchy.” George said Nigeria was not practising normal democracy or true federating units. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .