 Rivers United  To ensure that Rivers United have no financial worries as they prepare for their CAF Confederation Cup group stage qualifier against Enyimba of Aba, Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has boosted the team’s coffers with N20 million, which they will get if they win the contest. Recall that on Wednesday, proprietor of Go Round FC of Omoku, near Port Harcourt, Bro Felix Obuah, had promised to reward the team with N2 million if they beat Enyimba in the first leg of the tie in Aba on February 14. Challenging the team to win the first leg second preliminary round of the CAF Confederation on Sunday yesterday, Governor Wike tasked the players and officials to win the CAF Confederation Cup and watch their lives changed through rewards. He also made the same remark for Rivers Angels. The team was at the Government House, Port Harcourt alongside their women counterpart, Rivers Angels, to receive two brand new buses from the state government. While Rivers United got a state-of-the-art luxury bus, fitted with numerous gadgets, Rivers Angels got a 30-seater coaster bus, for which, however, the governor has approved that the team also get a luxury bus like their male counterpart. He went further to motivate both teams by promising them N10m for every away victory in their quest to win all available laurels in the continent and local leagues, just as he donated a coaster bus to Rivers United Supporters’ Club and ambulances to the teams. The governor commended both teams for bringing a positive image to the state, pointing out that sports can serve as a catalyst for development. Earlier, both Rivers Commissioner for Sports, Boma Iyaye and President, Sports Writers Association of Nigeria, Sir Honour Sirawoo had commended Governor Wike for his vision and drive to promote sports development in the State and serve as a reference point in Nigeria. Iyaye noted that in donating the luxurious bus to Rivers United, it became the first team in Nigeria and sub-Sahara West Africa to have such a vehicle, adding that it will go a long way in motivating the players to give their best. Sir Sirawoo in his remarks said Governor Wike has proven beyond doubts that he is truly the Power of Sports In Africa as bestowed by the AIPS, adding that the governor was giving generations a lifetime opportunity to excel in all spheres of sports. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .