 Crystal Palace’s English midfielder Andros Townsend (L) reacts after the English Premier League football match between Leeds United and Crystal Palace at Elland Road in Leeds, northern England on February 8, 2021. – Leeds won the match 2-0. (Photo by Jon Super / POOL / AFP)  The plan outlines a series of commitments aimed at creating greater access to opportunities and career progression for black, Asian and other minority ethnic groups in football, and actions to eradicate racial prejudice. Premier League chief executive Richard Masters said: “Football is a diverse sport, which brings together communities and cultures from all backgrounds. “This diversity has made the game stronger on the pitch and it is vital we ensure this is reflected across all areas of the game.” Masters added: “The No Room For Racism Action Plan underpins the Premier League’s continued commitment to promoting equality and tackling discrimination.” The Football Association this week called on the government to act quickly in the fight against racism after Manchester United defender Axel Tuanzebe and Lauren James, a forward for the club’s women’s team, were targeted on social media. It follows a number of other incidents in which footballers, including United forward Marcus Rashford and Chelsea full-back Reece James — brother of Lauren –, were targeted. Leeds United’s Brazilian midfielder Raphinha Dias Belloli (3L) vies with Crystal Palace’s English defender Gary Cahill (2R) during the English Premier League football match between Leeds United and Crystal Palace at Elland Road in Leeds, northern England on February 8, 2021. (Photo by Jon Super / POOL / AFP) / RESTRICTED TO EDITORIAL USE. No use with unauthorized audio, video, data, fixture lists, club/league logos or ‘live’ services. Online in-match use limited to 120 images. An additional 40 images may be used in extra time. No video emulation. Social media in-match use limited to 120 images. An additional 40 images may be used in extra time. No use in betting publications, games or single club/league/player publications. /  Culture secretary Oliver Dowden described the abuse as “absolutely shocking” and warned a change in the law would see social media companies “more accountable for what happens on their platforms”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .