FILE PHOTO: Water vapour billows from smokestacks at the incineration plant of Ivry-sur-Seine, near Paris as the sun rises, France, December 9, 2016. REUTERS/Charles Platiau/File Photo The Lagos State Government has urged ICT operators and other stakeholders to deploy cleaner energy in powering their operations in efforts to reduce carbon footprint in the state. The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, at the first stakeholders’ virtual Roundtable with the ICT industry in Lagos at the weekend, highlighted the intentions of the State Government to achieve significant reductions in carbon emissions. Tagged the “Clean Energy Initiative to Power the ICT Sector in Lagos,” the Commissioner, Ministry of Energy & Mineral Resources, Olalere Odusote, emphasized the importance of the ICT sector in achieving the State’s ambitions of becoming a Smart City and a 21st Century Economy as evidenced by the ongoing deployment of 6000km of fibre optic cables across the State. He added that Lagos has the highest density of ICT infrastructure in Nigeria, and the sector accounts for about 410,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions per annum in the State. He enjoined stakeholders to collaborate with the State on its journey towards a low General Manager, the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), Dr, Dolapo Fasawe, said the State “is committed to supporting Nigeria to achieve the objective of net-zero emission target by 2050 under the C40 Cities Alliance alongside nine other African cities.” She added that “to attain and surpass these lofty goals in the State, we require the full commitment and collaboration of all stakeholders.” The Group CEO for Viathan Engineering, Habeeb Alebiosu, remarked that “the roundtable provided a great opportunity for Viathan to highlight the appropriate clean energy solutions suitable for the ICT industry and for the general public.” Alebiosu highlighted that Viathan operates a number of power plants in Lagos and its environs deploying only natural gas and other renewable forms of energy, thereby reducing CO2 emissions that adversely affects the environment. He said further: “other ICT and Telecoms organizations should take advantage and be connected to Viathan’s network for round the clock power availability with no consequences to their technology and equipment. Our doors are always open for business.” In his presentation, the Head, Data Centre at Cloud Exchange, Adetoyese Oyerinde, said: “Power is critical to our business; clean energy gives us the room to do and be more,” While corroborating the viewpoints of Alebiosu, Cloud Exchange added that “Viathan’s clean energy solutions have helped Cloud Exchange to reduce its operating cost, noise pollution and carbon emissions.” Speaking at the roundtable, the Programme Manager, National Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) Expansion Plan, Dayo Adeshina, highlighted the potential role that LPG could play in driving the clean energy transition in the ICT sector. He noted that “The Federal Government is keen to improve the availability of LPG by implementing the LPG Expansion Plan.” Also commenting, Vice President Operations, Airtel Nigeria, Dr Adedoyin Adeola, shared that Airtel is open to collaborations to reduce emissions at their data centres in Lagos State and across the country. Similarly, Director, Regulatory Affairs & Governmental Relations at IHS Towers, Olubankole Falade, commented that IHS is aligned with the suggested approach to reduce carbon emission from the industry. He noted that solutions that can cater to their widely dispersed towers would be imperative and are keen to engage with the Lagos State Government to explore such solutions. In his closing remarks, Odusote reiterated that Lagos State Government is keen to continue to lead Nigeria’s clean energy transition and to reduce carbon emissions. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .