 Mr. Macaroni inside Police black maria  Lagos State Police Commissioner,, has ordered investigation into the viral video that revealed how protesters at #Occupylekkitollgate were tortured by policemen. According to police spokesman, Chief Superintendent Muyiwa Adejobi, the attention of the Lagos State Police Command was drawn to the viral video, where some arrested “#EndSARS protesters” were molested in a bus by some operatives after their arrest. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, who was piqued by this unprofessional and inhuman act, has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State CID, Panti, DCP Adegoke Fayoade, to analyse the video and bring to book whoever that must have been responsible for the act. “CP Odumosu reiterates that, in as much as the command is resolute in enforcing all laws in the state, it will not deviate from the Standard Operating Procedure of the Nigeria Police Force and provisions of the law in discharging its duties,” nothing that the command would fish out and punish those responsible for the molestation. He further urged Lagosians to be law-abiding and maintain peace at all times, as the police and other security agencies will not allow any violence and breakdown of law and order in any part of the state. Meanwhile, the comedian, Debo Adebayo aka Mr. Macaroni, who participated in the Saturday protest against reopening of Lekki tollgate, has narrated his experience while in police custody. He said they were told that they would be shot in a viral video on Sunday. The 28-year-old began by thanking everyone who spoke out to aide their release. He said: “My name is Debo Adebayo, popularly known as Mr. Macaroni. I want to thank everyone out there for speaking up. I want to thank everyone for the show of love. My phones are bad so I can’t take calls or reply messages. “I was scared. I did not want to go out at all. My father called me, all my siblings, my friends, everyone called me that don’t go out. In all honesty, I did not want to go out,” he said. “When we were picked up, we were taken to Adeniji, where we were beaten. We were stripped naked, and everyone was beaten. “If word was not out that people were already being arrested, people would have died clean and clear. They were telling us that they would shoot us and nothing would happen,” he added. The last Saturday’s Lekki protest was held to show displeasure with the decision of the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry allowing the Lekki Concession Company (LCC) to reopen the Lekki tollgate. On Saturday night, the spokesman for the Lagos State Police Command, Muyiwa Adejobi, told newsmen that Mr. Macaroni and the others had been granted bail. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .