Jet Case: Nigerian Twitter Bash Apostle Suleman Over Jet, Pandemic Comments The General Overseer of the Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman roused emotions on social media over his comments about coronavirus and the purchase of his third private Jet. On Thursday, a video surfaced online, in the video he said: In COVID (pandemic) I bought a jet; the third one. I have three. I was praying for COVID-19 not to end because I was resting. While people were complaining, my wife asked, ‘Can life be this sweet?’ Am I talking to somebody here?
No stress. I read on the Internet that there’s a rumour going around that I have a machine that prints money. I like that rumour. They say, ‘He should be investigated. He has a machine that prints money. Somebody asked if it’s true and I said it is true. They said, ‘It’s risky o’. I said I didn’t know it’s risky because I already bought the machine. When you speak in tongues, you’re printing money. This has generated lots of reactions from people on social media. This will not be the first time the pastor will be in a scandal. Recently, he was involved in an adultery scandal where one of his former pastors, Mike Davids accused him of sleeping with his wife, an allegation which Suleman has denied. Below are some reactions to his comments about coronavirus and buying a Jet: “When you speak in tongues,you are printing money” No emotions or euphoria or an attempt to convince the worshippers should make any man of God utter such statement. That’s “bastardisation” of the gospel of our Christ The first Apostle Suleman meeting i attended was my last — Tosin Olugbenga (@TosinOlugbenga) February 18, 2021  I pray this COVID 19 continues. I bought my third jet during COVID-19 pandemic- Apostle Suleman Is God not calling me like this? Abi is my antenna not receiving well like this? God when??? pic.twitter.com/Gw8hfA39XA — Youngichu™❁ (@youngichu) February 18, 2021  But Apostle suleman’s word on covid aside What’s a pastor using three jets for? Is he trying to own an airline or fly all his members to Heaven. pic.twitter.com/FGjzSC9ImR — 15th Sense (@Roidami_pace) February 18, 2021  Always thought Apostle Suleman was a fraud tho
Wasn’t he the same person who was talking about the COVID vaccine being the mark of the devil and the pope sacrificing italy or something?
That it contains signals to control the human body 
How do humans take that man seriously? — Witcher (@FeintsTwists) February 18, 2021  I always try not to be ill-mannered towards ‘men of God’ but this Apostle Suleman guy is overdoing things.
That video is way too insensitive, and I can only liken it to that of a drunkard showboating in a beer parlor.
“I wish COVID didn’t end” like seriously??? — timi  (@timiPR) February 18, 2021  Apostle suleman is just another one of those so called men of God. I’ve said this before, if only Christians believed in God the same way they believe in their pastors, we’ll not be here. You’ll hear sum’n like, ‘God of my pastor’, ode, do you know which God they serve? pic.twitter.com/4NEOSho3WZ — FeliCity (@Con_TrolllHer) February 18, 2021  Apostle Suleman is not your God!
Your Pastor is not your God!
They are both human…God is supernatural, God is supreme… Know God for yourself — Didi (@_didiong) February 18, 2021  Apostle Suleman says he bought his third jet during COVID, and prays the pandemic doesn’t end. The charlatanry Nigerians call “Christianity” has effectively reduced the national IQ of Nigeria by many points. It will take trauma and reorientation to put Nigeria on the right path. pic.twitter.com/3Aidlk0QVM — Ikhide R. Ikheloa (@ikhide) February 17, 2021  God ignored those dying during the pandemic but answered Apostle Suleman monetary prayers….
What a selective God, https://t.co/Hh7md3TzXT — Daddy G.O (@oboy_jay) February 18, 2021  I no dey blame apostle suleman or any other pastor, I dey blame nigerians wey allow pastors and apostles etc, to brainwashed them. — THE OKUMAGBE OF PH (@Ekpemoriri10) February 18, 2021 