 Nilayo FC  The 2021 Nigeria National League (NNL) season enters week two today, with Nilayo FC of Abeokuta seeking to grab the three maximum points against Vandrezzer FC in Lagos. Last week, Nilayo FC defeated a resilient Nnewi United 2-1 at the MKO Abiola Stadium, Abeokuta, while Vandrezzer FC secured a 0-0 draw against Delta Force FC despite playing with 10 men at the Jay-Jay Okocha Stadium, Ogwashi-Uku, Delta State. Nilayo FC is in Group B1 alongside Shooting Stars of Ibadan, Go Round FC, Rovers FC, Vandrezzer FC, Delta Force, Nnewi United, Stores, Giant Brillars, Dynamite FC, Ekiti United and Akajobi FC. The presence of top teams notwithstanding, President of Nilayo FC, Ebidowei Oweifie, believes the club has what it takes to pick the promotion ticket to the elite Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) at the end of the season. Speaking with The Guardian ahead of today’s clash with Vandrezzer FC in Lagos, Oweifie hinted that his club had a crop of young players who are eager to make name for themself. “Some weeks ago, our thinking was that we will finish among the top teams in the group at the end of the season, but after our game against Nnewi United, and based on the excellent display by our players, we are of the opinion now that the ticket to NPFL is possible. We have a good team, and the management is ready,” Oweifie stated. He stated that Nilayo FC is in Lagos today for the three points at stake. The Chief Executive Officer of Nilayo Sports Management Company, who is the club proprietor, Bukola Olopade, said the club would change the face of NNL through its branding and marketing strategy. “Nilayo FC is purely a privately owned club, though we enjoy the support of Ogun State government. We are going to change the face of NNL and by extension Nigerian football league. We have a good marketing strategy, which places our team above others in this race. Before the start of next season, we will generate over N200 million from our marketing drive to manage the club,” Olopade stated. Today’s clash against Vandrezzer FC will give the likes of Muri Batuli, James Ekebuike and Kabiru Popoola the opportunity to showcase their talent before Lagos fans. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .