(FILES) In this file photo taken on December 25, 2012 Britain’s Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh waves to well-wishers as he leaves following the Royal family Christmas Day church service at St Mary Magdalene Church in Sandringham, Norfolk, in the east of England, on December 25, 2012. AFP PHOTO / LEON NEAL – Queen Elizabeth II’s 97-year-old husband Prince Philip emerged unscathed after being involved in a road traffic accident near the monarch’s Sandringham Estate on January 17, 2019, Buckingham Palace said in a statement. (Photo by Leon NEAL / AFP) Queen Elizabeth II’s 99-year-old husband Prince Philip will spend more time in a London hospital where he is being treated for an unspecified condition, Buckingham Palace said on Tuesday. “The Duke of Edinburgh remains at King Edward VII’s Hospital where he is receiving medical attention for an infection,” a statement said. “He is comfortable and responding to treatment but is not expected to leave hospital for several days.” Philip, who has been married to the queen for 73 years, was admitted to the private London hospital a week ago as a “precautionary measure” after he felt unwell, according to the palace. His youngest son, Prince Edward, earlier told Sky News television that his father was “a lot better…, and he’s looking forward to getting out. “So we keep our fingers crossed,” he added. On Monday, Philip’s grandson, Prince William, said the duke was “OK” and being closely monitored by medical staff. Palace sources have said that his admission was not coronavirus-related. Heir to the throne Prince Charles visited his father in hospital on Saturday but did not comment on his state of health. Philip, a former naval officer, was treated at the same hospital in August 2012 after a recurrence of a bladder infection that laid him low during the queen’s diamond jubilee celebrations. The previous year, he had a stent fitted after suffering a blocked coronary artery. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .