Armed bandits have killed two people in Kaduna Communities, while seven children have been injured as a result of accidental detonation of explosives. In an update on security report yesterday, the Commissioner of Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said security agencies reported that armed bandits attacked Akwando village in Kachia Council and killed one resident, Dikko Bagudu. He explained: “In another incident, armed bandits barricaded the road from Sabon Birni to Rikau, Igabi Council and killed one Ibrahim Abdulmumin, a resident of Rikau village. One Sahabi Shafiu, son of the village head, was also injured. “It was reported that both victims were returning from the weekly market at Sabon Birni when they were intercepted by the bandits.” Governor Nasir El-Rufai, he added, has expressed sadness over the reports and condoled the families of the deceased, while offering prayers for the repose of their souls. The commissioner further stated: “Security agencies have reported the accidental detonation of a substance at a residence in Ungwan Mangworo, Igabi Council. “According to the report, children playing in the area picked up the material from a nearby farm and began to play with it, not knowing what it was. In the process, it was accidentally detonated as the children continued to fiddle with it near their home. Seven of the children were injured by the explosion, and are now receiving treatment at the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Shika.” Governor el-Rufai reportedly stated that the injured children were receiving treatment. “He (governor) tasked security agencies to conduct a detailed investigation into the incident and urged citizens to increase their vigilance towards the presence of such items around inhabited locations. “Security agencies have been duly informed of the incident for a thorough investigation, to forestall future occurrence. Citizens are advised to contact the Kaduna State Security Operations Room with information about dangerous or explosive materials found anywhere around the state,” the commissioner added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .