 CECPC Chairman. H.E. Mai Mala Buni reconciles Zamfara APC. Fmr. Gov. Abdul’aziz Yari, Sen. Kabiru Marafa, other stakeholders at the membership registration exercise. Photo: TWITTER/APCNIGERIA  Some people believe that the ongoing revalidation and registration of members would produce APC’s genuine membership register that would be open and owned by the people instead of the current one where nobody except moneybags believes the party register is their personal document. In Lagos, the national leader had been accused of using the register to manipulate the party structure since APC was founded in 2014 to achieve his goal of installing whoever he wants. Former governor Akinwunmi Ambode was denied a second term ticket because he didn’t play according to the leader’s laid down rules.  Obviously, these do not augur well with the national leader and his loyalists and on several instances, their voices had been raised, crying out that some persons were trying to renege on the agreement to return the presidency to the Southwest after Buhari’s two terms in 2023.
 
Some supporters of the national leader, who raised the alarm include Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, Chairman, Lagos State Caretaker Committee, Chief Balogun, former governor of Ogun State, Aremo Segun Osoba, the lawmaker representing Ajeromi Ifelodun Federal Constituency, Mr. Kolawole Taiwo, among others.  Many see the exercise as a means to whittle down the influence of Tinubu on the ground that the committee members that were dispatched to coordinate the exercise in Lagos were nominated without Tinubu’s input despite the central role the former Lagos State governor played in making the party what it is today. On January 23, the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, headed by Buni, announced the list of chairmen, secretaries and members of the Membership Registration Committees for all the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, to conduct the registration.
  
For Lagos State, Dr. Mohammed Bashir Ruwan Godiya is chairman while Chief Anthony Ogah is secretary. Other members are Hon. Abiodun Ambali, Tilewa Sijuwade, Ibrahim Isiaka, Abiodun Mafe and Wasiu Doyin Banjo. The outburst of Team Jandor, Lagos4Lagos movement 
THE Initiator of Lagos4Lagos movement, Mr. Abdul-Azeez Olajide Adeniran (Jandor), who wants to contest the 2023 governorship election on the platform of APC in Lagos, has thrown his weight, like Oki and others, behind the exercise. He said the registration and revalidation of membership exercise is one of the appeals his team had been making for to the national body to effect change in Lagos APC.  “For instance, Lagos4Lagos has 50,000 faithful as we speak, who will register first and thereafter we will encourage others to participate in the process,” he said.  According to him; “We are aware of the fact that the APC and major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would remain the platforms to reckon with in the 2023 elections, but that will not make Lagos4Lagos fold its arms. Hence, we are appealing to the national body to ensure that the process is clean and transparent.”
 
He also warned those planning mischief to understand that the political dynamics in Lagos APC has changed from what it was in 1999 to 2014, “where one person dictated the tune; we now have divergent views. There is no more Asiwaju dictate.”
 
The former television broadcaster also dismissed the letter credited to Faleke asking for the cancellation of the exercise.  Meanwhile, Oki said it was a disservice to build APC around an individual like it is in Lagos. 
 
According to him; “We shouldn’t help APC to build the party around people so that our democracy can work. The issue we are talking about is not that of an individual but the party.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .