Adebayo Otunba Thomas Bamidele Adebayo, a well-to-do quantity surveyor was born on March 2, 1937 to Pa Michael Adebayo Onafowokan and Madam Sarah Adebayo both of blessed memory in Igan, Itun Ile Nla in Ijebu East Local Council of Ogun State. His parents were Anglican by faith, he was confirmed a Christian during his secondary education in Lagos. He died on December 17, 2020 at the age of 83. Tombee, as he was commonly called by his associates, started his education at St. John Primary School, Igan, proceeding to Emmanuel Primary School, Isonyin to complete his primary education. In 1949, brilliant and vibrant Tombee gained admission to King’s College, Lagos, finishing in 1954. Thereafter, he proceeded to England where he studied Quantity Surveying at the College of Estate management, Kensignton, London. Later he entered the University of Reading, U.K between 1957 and 1960, graduating with honours. In his quest to expand the scope of his profession and practice, he set up his own private company practising quantity surveying, He named it T. Adebayo, Oyebadejo & Egbon; he was its Managing Partner. As a surveyor, he supervised many federal Government projects, some of which are still standing today. Among those still standing are: Nigeria Airforce Base, Kaduna, Hamdala Hotel, the University of Benin, the University of Ilorin, the College of Medicine of the University of Port Harcourt, Auchi Polytechnic, NIDB Building, Lagos,Tejuoso Market, National Theatre, Iganmu, Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos. As a practising surveyor, he was at a time Chairman, Examination Board forNigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS), a past President of NIQS and in 1975 Fellow of NIQS. For his activities in the Vineyard of God, Otunba Adebayo joined the Holy Trinity Church, Igan Ipabi from birth and served as member, Parish Council for over 30 years. He was member, Board of Ijebu North Archdeaconry, now Isonyin Archdeaconry; Member, Board of Ijebu Anglican Diocese, as bishop’s nominee. He was member of Ijebu Anglican Synod till 2014, member, Cathedral Church Italowojodu since 1995, member, new Cathedral Church Building Committee. At the same time, he was also a member, All Saint’s Anglican Church, Yaba, Lagos. He was a pillar of Holy Trinity Church, Igan, his home town, both morally and financially. Among many donations, he single handedly painted the church from 1980 to 2006. For his social services, Otunba Adebayo was State Commissioner for Agriculture, Commissioner for Commerce and Industries and Commissioner for Works and Housing during the administration of Chief Bisi Onabanjo. As a philanthropist, he was a very kind person. From 1976, he started the award of scholarships to Ijebu indigenes for secondary and tertiary institutions. He built the maternity centre for his home town, Igan. For awards and fellowships, Otunba Adebayo received more than 50 awards, traditional awards and chieftaincy titles. He touched many lives as a result, he earned two honorary traditional titles of Otunba. He was Otunba Muwagun of Ijebu Ife and Otunba Aseto Olu of Ijebu Imunsin. Adebayo was a family man, a loving husband, father, brother, and uncle. He until his death, was married to Chief (Mr.) Adebayo, and the marriage was blessed with many outstanding children and grand children. He will be buried on March 6, 2021, at his country home, Igan after the final burial ceremony.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .