Ikorodu Bois were nominated for the Favourite African Social Media Star category of the Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards. Nigerian internet sensation Ikorodu Bois have been nominated for the Nickelodeon Kids Choice Awards 2021 under the favourite African social media star category. The nomination list for the Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards was released on its official website with two Nigerian-kid superstars clinching a spot in the award category. The young boys, who are known for recreating and mimicking multi-million-dollar music videos, Hollywood film trailers and epic pictures, also announced their nomination on Twitter: “Good news! We have just been nominated for a Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Award.” Good news!  we have just been nominated for a Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Award.￼ plssss guys vote for us
Here’s how you can vote:
￼ On Twitter, using the hashtags #VoteIkoroduBois & #KCA
￼ Or visit https://t.co/gCYjFz0fn3 to vote#KCA | @NickAfrica Love you all pic.twitter.com/HmzasiV7pN — ikorodu bois (@IkoroduB) February 6, 2021  They were nominated alongside Emmanuella Samuel, a.k.a Emmanuella, a 10-year old comedian from Markangel comedy – Nigeria, Bonang – South Africa, Ghetto kids – Uganda , Elsa Majimbo – Kenya, Wain Van Den berg – south Africa. The Ikorodu Bois made up of Babatunde Sanni, Muiz Sanni, Malik Sanni and Fawas Aina, have recreated videos featuring celebrities such as Roddy Rich, Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson, Zlatan, Funke Akindele, Wizkid and Davido. In April, 2020, they earned praise from “The Professor” after replicating the trailer of the Netflix Spanish drama series, Money Heist. They earned an invite to the world premiere of Netflix action thriller, Extraction 2 after making a remake of the first trailer. They also received praises from Hollywood star, Chris Hemsworth and the producers of Extraction, the Russo brothers. Last yea, streaming giant Netflix gifted the group equipment such as high-tech cameras, Boom microphones, tripods, voice recorders and even an Apple iMac computer. Ikorodu Bois were recently featured on Steve Harvey’s TV show. The Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards is an annual American children’s awards ceremony show that is produced by Nickelodeon. The show honours the year’s biggest television, movie, and music acts as voted by viewers worldwide of Nickelodeon networks.