 Tony Momoh  Reacting to the passage, President Buhari said Momoh stood with him through thick and thin, adding: “His brand of loyalty is very rare in the politics of today. I will greatly miss him.” The President recalled that as Chairman, Media and Publicity of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) Campaign Organisation in the 2003 and 2007 elections and Chairman, Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), the deceased contributed immensely to the growth and strengthening of the parties, which culminated in the formation of the All Progressives Congress (APC). ALSO, Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has expressed grief at the death of Momoh, saying: “It is with a heavy heart that I received the news of his death.” In a statement in Benin City, Obaseki celebrated the contributions of the late Momoh to the growth and development of Nigeria, describing him as a rare politician, who spoke truth to power when it mattered most.
BESIDES, Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere and former representative of Ogun East Senatorial District, Olabiyi Durojaiye mourned his demise. They described his death as a great loss to the country at a critical moment. Spokesman of Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin, said it was a sad moment for Nigeria. Odumakin added that Momoh was an unrepentant adherent of restructuring until his death. Durojaiye said: “Oh! The prince has gone. He played his role not only in journalism but also contributed to politics in Nigeria. Nigeria will definitely miss him.” MEANWHILE, former Chief Press Secretary to four governors in Oyo State, Oloye Lekan Alabi, mourned the passage of the former Minister of Information. Speaking with The Guardian in Ibadan, Alabi who was pioneer Corporate Affairs Manager of Odu’a Investment Limited, said Momoh made his mark as a teacher, journalist and lawyer. Describing the deceased as a thorough professional, Alabi added: “He trained as a teacher, later journalist and lawyer. He was a deep, thorough and blunt man. He has made a good mark. Nigerian journalists will miss him. May his soul rest in peace.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .