Mansa Media (www.MansaMedia.africa), an African news site, and APO Group, a leading Pan-African communications and business consultancy, are pleased to announce a strategic partnership aimed to promote distribution of business related content, with the aim to inform investment decisions across Africa.  For Mansa, this marks a key milestone four years after its inception. Through this new partnership, Mansa will have the opportunity to share hundreds of stories and press releases related to Africa from more than 500 sources of reference, including national and international institutions as well as governments. “Our mission is to redefine the African media sphere by changing the continent’s narrative through sound storytelling and reporting, providing insights on African investments through deeply researched journalism. We believe that this strategic partnership with APO Group will contribute to the realization of our mission, which will eventually lead to more investors and companies leveraging on the data produced,” says the Chief Editor, Emily Worrall. In September 2020, Mansa launched its first magazine, which offers readers well-consolidated insights and analytics drawn from trusted experts on the continent’s financial and creative spheres. Mansa will be releasing its maiden podcast ‘The Weekly Beat’ with the aim to simplify the week’s business and economic headlines for all listeners. The 15 minutes podcast will be presented by Arnold Segawa, Maggie Mutesi and Dumi Jere with contributions from financial experts and journalists in Africa and beyond. First episode of The Weekly Beat: https://bit.ly/3tpBrQ2. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Mansa Media. You can find more stories at www.MansaMedia.africa and https://twitter.com/mansa_media For media inquiries, please contact:
VP Communications at Mansa Media
Emily Worrally
Email: emily@mansamedia.africa
Mansa Media
Mararo road, Lavington
Nairobi, Kenya
You can follow us on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. About APO Group:
As the leading Pan-African communications and business consultancy, APO Group (www.APO-opa.com) will collect all relevant content from African governments and distribute it free of charge through its press release distribution service on www.Africa-Newsroom.com. About Mansa:
Mansa Media (www.MansaMedia.africa) was established in 2017. Our mission is to redefine the African media sphere by changing our continent’s narrative through sound storytelling and reporting, providing insights on African investments through deeply researched journalism. Whereas Mansa’s focus is strictly on journalism and news at our core, our hope is that Mansa’s reporting gives investors and companies leverage on investments and insights into emerging African markets. With our founder and CEO’s combined experience and network, industry partnerships, and focus on providing rich content produced with sustainability in mind, our plan is to leverage the team's journalistic experience and passion for investments across the region, and deploy a marketing strategy that is closely aligned with building personal relationships with our target market. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .