 [FILES] Danbatta  One of the major high points of the Nigerian Communication Act 2003, signed into law by President Olusegun Obasanjo on July 8, 2003, is the power it gives to the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) to protect telecoms consumers.  Effects of DND on sector
DND service as mandated by the NCC enables mobile subscribers to opt-out of marketing/promotional messages of which bulk SMS is classified as one. Hence, mobile numbers that have been added to the DND list by their owners are unable to receive bulk SMS.
  
This can either bar bulk messages from all industries (Full DND), or only from select categories of telemarketers (partial DND).
 
The Commission has gone empirical to measure the effect of the service as it conducted a study titled: A Study on the Impact of DND Service 2442 Short Code in Effective Telecoms Consumer Complaints Management.  Language, awareness, flexibility limit activation
THE challenges of language, awareness and flexibility were found as major limiting factors for DND activation.
  
NCC, in the study, explained that lack of flexibility in the opt-in and opt-out options of the DND, which prevents MNOs from alerting their subscribers of new products and services in case they might wish to amend their status is a major challenge.
   
Secondly, it informed that inadequate awareness of the DND service by consumers in rural areas is another challenge. Thirdly, the DND service does not cater to Nigerians, who do not speak English, or for those with accessibility challenges due to disability.  DND usage in other countries
The report observed that in the past few years, the use of DND service increased in many countries and their telecoms regulatory body has instructed the MNOs to apply it. Some of these countries include India, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, and Nigeria. Consequently, it became a hindrance to businesses, which use promotional SMS as the main method to reach their clients.  Impact on VAS operations in Nigeria
The activation of DND by Nigerians, indeed, impacted the operations of Value Added Service (VAS) providers in the country.  “At this stage, with initially sighted value already shaven off and with only hard work left to be done to re-grow from nothing, the inviting aggregator position is looking bare and maybe a stakeholder position some may want to just hand over (like brokers) to the telcos for whatever little share they can get. Problem is, though…100 per cent of zero is yet zero.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .