 Buhari  In a statement yesterday, UPU said insecurity in Nigeria from Sokoto, Zamfara, Katsina, Taraba, Kaduna and others states in the North, as well as the South-South, especially Delta State and Urhobo ethnic nationality, had become unbearable. Taiga lamented that kidnappings, armed robbery, cult wars, herdsmen and farmers violence, as well as  communal strife, have become unprecedented, saying: “It is apparent that the country’s security architecture cannot cope with the current challenges.” UPU also insisted that the Federal Government should be decisive on finding a permanent solution to the activities of herdsmen, who have continued to kidnap, kill and rape women in communities and disrupt farming, which he stressed, remained the mainstay of most Nigerians in the rural communities. It lamented that the criminal activities of herdsmen were still visible in Urhobo land, especially Abraka, Uwheru and Olomu among others, saying, it was in support of Kano State Governor, Abdulahi Ganduje’s suggestion on a law to ban movement of cattle and herdsmen across the country to end the lingering herdsmen and farmers clashes. “Nigeria cannot continue to operate a unitary government and colour it as a federal system of government. This is creating avoidable tension in the polity that can explode in our faces with unpredictable consequences.” On the 2023 governorship election in Delta State, UPU urged calm and assured the Urhobo Nation that it would work with all interested groups to ensure that an Urhobo man emerges governor in 2023. “We shall reach out to our neighbours in Delta South and Delta North to get their support. It is time for Delta Central to produce the next governor and UPU is in support of their quest and will work towards achieving it,” he stated. He, however, charged all arms of government to initiate economic measures to reduce the sufferings of Nigerians, pointing out that there was much hardship in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .