 UNICEF office  Agba said the GRID 3 geo-spatial technology, which is domiciled in the Monitoring and Evaluation Department, Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, would ensure transparency and integrity in project execution through citizens’ participation. The minister spoke in Abuja when he received a draft policy document on national project monitoring and evaluation, which is a tool to measure results and link evaluation evidence to policy, planning and budgeting processes to promote public accountability and learning for improved performance. The policy was jointly drafted by Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) and Nigerian Association of Evaluators. Agba said government would, henceforth, not only “earmark money” for development projects, it would also “eye-mark” progress in the execution of such projects as captured in the budget. “The intent of the “eye-mark web app” is to use geo-spatial technology to monitor progress of all projects.” The application, according to him, would serve as a platform where citizens could upload pictures and records on progress of work on projects in their jurisdictions, in such a way that nobody would be able to file in false or defective evaluation and monitoring report or claim. This, he said, would ensure maintenance of integrity and accountability in handling government business while building citizens’ trust in government’s policies and programmes. Agba commended the team that presented the draft policy for its effort, promising to look at it, make necessary input into the document, and present it to National Economic Council (NEC), before its final submission to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for approval. President, Nigeria Association of Evaluators, Dr. Uzodinma Aderieje, had earlier commended the minister for supporting and acknowledging the place of evaluation in development process. “Development process is nothing without evaluation,” he said. Evaluation Manager, UNICEF-Nigeria, Dr. Robert Ndamobissi, said the document would help in establishing a national accountability framework which would enable the country demonstrate political will to play its role as giant of Africa.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .