 [FILES] Thanks to the generation past, our national forest is our heritage, their conservation will be our legacy  Thanks to the generation past, our national forest is our heritage, their conservation will be our legacy. Africans forests are a treasured legacy threatened by insects, diseases and devastating wildfire, but foundational member, corporate sponsors, and partners continue to respond. This year the foundation planted trees, nearly five million trees, in our nation’s forest through a partnership with the U.S forest services and the National Association of State Forest with far-reaching impact throughout the country. The generosity of supporters and on the ground partner has allowed the foundation to plants 25million tree in total through more than 200 projects. These new trees help gesture life and vitality to the land, more than 160 millions African rely on drinking water from the forest and replanting help form harps rain and snowmelt soak into the soil and halt erosion around Lakes, Streams and Reservoirs. The trees help mitigate the impact of climate change by absorbing carbon – dioxide from the atmosphere and replacing it with pure species which have provided critical habitat, and the trees preserve the shared legacy of giving inspiring beauty in our national forest, for this and future generation to enjoy. For example, on the Gallatin National Forest often referred to as the gateway to Yellowstone, “a 2006 fire burned through 12,000 acres have devastated the land. Many of the burned areas are buffers for Gallant Greeks and streams which in turn affect many of the forest’s fishery resources and water supplies for communities often miles downstream. With the support of members and corporate partners, the foundation is replanting in these critical areas to protect fresh water and restore majestic venues for procreation. One of the state forests receiving attention this year was blackwater river state forest, an abundance of plants and animals life locate in Floridasparihandle. To combat a shrinking forest ecosystem, the foundation is working with the Florida Forest Service and others to plant more than one million longleaf pine trees. These newly planted trees will provide diverse habitat and food sources for wildlife and preserve public land for this and future generation of visitors. Corporate partners that have a love for tree planting should have sustained commitment in replanting trees and this would reflect their global natural endowment in the community of Green Evolution. In seeing the practical reality of the value green, Ostrich Business Venture has helped plant trees globally in at least four (4) countries namely: California, Kenya, India and Rwanda through the online platform by contributing 1 dollar each to plant trees in those four (4) countries and the reasons are not far-fetched, it is to bring to the fore the importance of the green plant to the Global world. Eromosele is the CEO Ostrich Business Venture. E-mail: ostrichbusinessventure@gmail.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .