 [FILES] CECPC Chairman. H.E. Mai Mala Buni reconciles Zamfara APC. Fmr. Gov. Abdul’aziz Yari, Sen. Kabiru Marafa, other stakeholders at the membership registration exercise. Photo: TWITTER/APCNIGERIA  It said that the most appropriate, constitutionally-acceptable and best way to do this is for all individuals to join political parties. The group, led by Chairman of the Lagos State Building Collapse Prevention Guild (BCPG) who also doubles as chairman of the group, Solomon Adeyinka Ogunseye, urged individuals to take advantage of the All Progressives Congress (APC) membership revalidation and registration to become members of the party. Ogunseye said: “Each citizen must note that his participation in the exercise is one giant step towards eligibility to vote and be voted for. More to this is that they now become positive change-agents within their immediate and larger communities whose voice would be truly heard. He bemoaned the security situation in the country, saying: “Every variable posing economic threats to our sustenance as a nation must be adequately addressed and not with kid gloves.” He said “with the inflation rate on a continuous increase and our country’s GDP on a steady decline, our economy is really in a bad shape. Every variable posing economic threats to our sustenance as a nation must be adequately addressed, and no longer with kid’s glove. Advising Nigerians on COVID-19, he said, “Covid-19 is real. We have seen it kill and cut short the lives of people around the globe, and it is still ravaging. It is on records how that its first wave ravaged the economy of the world, Nigeria, not an exemption. Now that we are experiencing the second wave, with different variants of it, we urge Nigerians to observe total Covid-19 guidelines and protocols. Speaking on the objective of the group, Adeyinka who is also a fellow of the Nigeria Institute of Architects said, “our objectives are to foster credible Leadership and Development across the nation, to act as a support group to the nation and Lagos State Government while advocating for good governance in Nigeria. He added part of our aim is to also develop God-fearing leaders who will take Nigeria to the promise land through sensitisation of Citizen and too provide a voice for Nigerian youth and adults alike and support for the government across the nation through legal means of media, politics and election. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .