 Junaid Mohammed  Cynicism. Nonchalance. Sarcasm. Belligerence. Dr. Junaid Mohammed brought all those to bear on his politics, as he stoutly spoke truth to power. He was constant and consistent in his interventions in national political discourse. He was a ready resource to journalists, especially when issues on Nigeria’s convoluted presidential democracy are involved.
 
His journey into Nigeria’s commentariat brought with it the search for an egalitarian society within a dysfunctional federation. Perhaps, on account of the fact that he was born in the Dala area of Kano, where the General Hospital is situated, Mohammed grew up and decided to study medicine in Russia.
 
Upon his return to Nigeria, he joined politics and decided to cast anchor with the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), the hot bed of social welfare political ideology in the region. It was on that platform that he emerged to represent the Dala Federal Constituency in the Second Republic’s House of Representatives.  Fire splutter
MOST of the time, Mohammed’s interventions come forcefully, tingling the ears of those who hear or read his postulations, because they sound quite uncharacteristically from a member of northern Nigeria intelligentsia at a time a northerner is holding the reins of political power. 
 
Such was the independent mindedness of the former lawmaker that late last year, when the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Rt. Rev. Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah, delivered his fiery Yuletide homily indicting the Buhari presidency, Mohammed align firmly with the observations of the Catholic prelate.	   
 
Commenting on Bishop Kukah’s depositions, Mohammed had stated: “I have to admit, the core issue he raised about nepotism is real, and of course, marginalisation of some certain sections of the country is real and that nepotism is in favour of people that are close to Buhari, particularly his friends, cronies, relations and in-laws. Over 99 per cent of the appointments Buhari made are not based on merit.” 
   
Early last year, when the Federal Government shut down the country’s land borders, Mohammed wondered what that government’s policy was intended to achieve, even as he noted that rice import that was being prohibited was continuing in the north, yet at exorbitant price. 
 
Before then also, the Second Republic lawmaker had blown the whistle on the profile of President Buhari’s appointments, alleging that the president was ennobling mediocrity in form of nepotism at the expense of merit.   
 
Just about the same time, the former lawmaker told The Guardian that the move by Kano State Government to depose the then Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sunusi III, was not a big deal, asserting that the emir was after all an appointee of the government.	 
 
With his demise, the voice of authority against impunity and excesses in the north has gone silent. It would take time to find a replacement. Although Dr. Mohammed belonged to the elite, he espoused a pan-Nigeria view, but never for one moment forgot that he was a product of Kano talakawa politics.	 
 
What appeared, as his last intervention, was the plea to the National Assembly, his constituency, to stop President Buhari’s attempt to garland former service chiefs with ambassadorial appointments despite their less than excellent performance in tackling insecurity in the country. Last plea to his constituency
TWO weeks before his death, Mohammed spoke to The Guardian on the rationale for elevating retired service chiefs to ambassadorial positions.  “If, however, they are determined to exercise their mandate of checking the executive, they should refuse to ratify the appointment of these ambassadors. That is the ideal thing to do, but given the fact that most of the Senators and House of Representatives members are corrupt and they don’t even know their rights, they are there just to make money. I’m not sure they can do the right thing. But the least they can do is to refuse to ratify their appointment. “They sat down and designed retirement benefits which is over and above what even former presidents have. So you can see that there is no justification for them to take the job unless they want to continue to embarrass the country. “The service chiefs themselves, all of who I suppose are billionaires, should please decline the appointment, quietly go somewhere else in Nigeria or abroad to go and enjoy their filthy wealth. By so doing, they will save Nigeria and Buhari himself unnecessary embarrassment and tension. Buhari, his ministers and appointees, are massively unpopular.
 
“So as far as I am concerned, the issues arising by Buhari’s appointment of the service chiefs as ambassadors can be summarised as follows: it was clearly an affront to public opinion. These General have been accused of corruptly enriching themselves; they are irresponsible and incompetent, particularly the Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Baratai, and there is nothing to show apart from the Airforce One. The others have nothing to show in terms of performance in the positions they have just been asked to vacate. “These are people given certain positions and they failed woefully and yet given additional reward. I don’t know of any country that can move forward with this kind of attitude and mindset of the top leadership, in this case, Buhari. 
 
“For a service chief to go through the revolving door to be an ambassador, you have to make sure you investigate his performance. And these are people that had been unnecessarily allowed to stay in their positions for five years. Now, it is only fair that they are investigated because they were not accountable to anybody as money goes straight from the treasury to their personal bank accounts.	 
 
“You have to make sure that the country is not shortchanged, because if you don’t do that then you have yourself to blame. Secondly, if you have to send an ambassador who comes from a military background, you have to make sure you consult the country you want to send him; you get what they call agreement before the posting, because some of the countries you want to send them to may not want to accept them. And there is also a history we have to consider in sending some of these retired Generals to diplomatic posts.  “The British were consulted before he was assigned to serve as an envoy in London. Then too was Brig. George Kurubo, who was also senior to Gowon and was sent to Russia to serve as an Ambassador.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .