Gunmen have abducted the monarch of Ikuru town in Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers State, Aaron Ikuru. Also, bandits on Sunday evening kidnapped a lecturer with the Linguistics and Communications Department ,University of Port Harcourt, Dr. Jones Ayauwo. The Guardian gathered that the traditional ruler was abducted at his residence at Ikuru town while the lecturer was kidnapped by along Andoni -Ogoni axis road in state while returning from a church programme from his community. The Ikuru Palace spokesman, Maurice Ikuru,has confirmed the kidnapped of his principal. “Yes, it is true, it happened about 8.30pm on Sunday,” he said. Also confirming the lecturer’s abduction, the Public Relations Officer of Uniport, Mr.Sam Kpenu, disclosed that the lecturer was taken when he travelled to his home town at the weekend. “He was kidnapped by gunmen along Andoni -Ogoni axis road in Rivers State,” Kpenu said. “Three occupants were him in the car but when the gunmen came, they forced the three occupants out of the vehicle then forcefully took Mr. Ayauwo into their own waiting vehicle.” The University spokesman, added that one of the hoodlums drove away the lecturer’s car along side theirs and sped to unknown destination while the other three occupants were left stranded at the scene but they later fled for safety. “We have not heard anything from the kidnappers since then but the University management has reached out to the Victim’s family and we are seriously following up the situation” said the Uniport PRO. “The Management of the University is so concerned and caring under the Acting Vice Chancellor, Prof. Stephen Okodudu,as he is doing everything possible to ensure the safe and timely release of the victim” Meanwhile, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, has confirmed the two abductions and attacks on journalists in the State. Omoni said,” Yes, we have received the information that some persons who were returning from Andoni on Sunday evening were ambushed and kidnapped and we can also confirm the abduction of the Monarch of Ikuru ” He said, investigations are on going to unravel the identity and arrest of the Hoodlums and to ensure safe and timely release of the victims.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .