 Back view of the premises where the cemetery is located. PHOTO: GBENGA AKINFENWA  But when the company was contacted, they claimed they obtained all the necessary documents and license to operate a cemetery in the vicinity. The Operations Manager of the company, who gave his name simply as Mr. Anu, told The Guardian on phone: “We have all the license from government, you can’t operate an establishment like this without government backing and paper works. Our own parts have been sealed by government and we have the approval and license to operate a cemetery. “Two, our cemetery is properly located. Look at Atan, look at Ikoyi cemetery and other cemeteries in Lagos, what are the things around it, they are actually within residential areas. Before government can license a cemetery, they’ll come around to see the environment; they get feedback from people in the community and they check the actual position of the cemetery, it’s not just an office thing. “This is not something they do within one month, two months, six months or one year. They take their time to do their investigation.” He noted that the company has not received any complaint from the residents, “as a matter for fact, the people of this area are happy with the services we offer. So, if anyone is complaining, it’s probably our competitors, I don’t want to believe somebody is saying we are disturbing them in this community. “One thing our legal adviser told me was that if you write anything that defames the company, we would not hesitate to take legal action.” When The Guardian visited the Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning, Alausa, to confirm the approval of the cemetery or otherwise, our correspondent was directed to the Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority (LASPPPA), Ikeja for the confirmation. Following The Guardian’s enquiry, the LASPPPA embarked on discreet investigation on the company’s claim. Three weeks after, their report disclosed that the location of the funeral home does not fall under the jurisdiction of Lagos State, but Ogun State. As a result, a further step was taken to Ogun State Ministry of Physical Planning, Abeokuta late December to unravel the mystery. Though the Press Officer of the ministry said she has furnished the commissioner with necessary information, but there is no news yet on the progress made so far. But a source within the ministry confided that the ministry has commenced investigation and will soon make its discovery known.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .