• Asks senators to boycott plenary if Lawan fails to withdraw comment
• Pan-Yoruba group chides Buhari over increased insecurity
• Wants FG to openly move against terrorists A Yoruba leader and founder of the Yoruba K’oya Movement, Deji Osibogun, yesterday, urged South-West governors to stop the incursion of killer-herdsmen into Yorubaland. Osibogun, who spoke as a guest speaker at the lecture organised by the National Association of Public Affairs Analysts (NAPAA) at Samonda, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, said that Yorubaland must be protected and that nobody could threaten the Yoruba on their land. Osibogun said: “Stopping incursion into our territory is actually in the hands of the governors as the chief security officers of the states. They are supposed to provide security. They should go and provide for their people. They have done the Amotekun. Are the Amotekun operatives proper and well trained enough to provide security? The founder of Yoruba K’oya Movement also chided the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, over comment that South-West governors motivated the attacks on some northerners in Shasha market. He, therefore, urged senators of Yoruba origin to boycott the Senate plenary if the Senate President failed to withdraw the statement. MEANWHILE, a United States-based Pan-Yoruba organisation, the Yoruba Alliance, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently address rising security problems hindering foreign investments and economic development in the country. “Unless the Federal Government takes urgent measures to stem the tide of kidnappings, banditry, terrorism and other vices, Nigeria, which according to Global Peace Index Report, ranked 16th among the world’s most dangerous country, might slip into anarchy,” stated the group’s Chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi and Secretary-General, Babajide Abatan. In a communiqué issued after an emergency meeting in Maryland, United States (U.S.), the group, an alliance of Yoruba organisations and clubs, said the Federal Government should stop foreign herdsmen from entering Nigeria. It also stated that since the Fulani herders that inflict bloodshed on citizens of the nation are said to be mainly foreigners, said the Comptroller-General of the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) should collaborate with the Inspector-General of Police and all the service chiefs in achieving an effective enforcement of immigration laws and tighter border control, adding that a national livestock development policy should be initiated to prevent destruction of farmlands. The Yoruba Alliance also urged the President to give serious attention to the suggestion made by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State in enacting a law prohibiting movement of cattle from the North to other parts of the country to eradicate conflicts between herdsmen and farmers. While imploring the National Assembly to amend Section 214 of 1999 Constitution to grant state governors the power to control the commissioner of police and officers in each state, the also urged the President to address the nation and openly condemn possession of illegal weapons by these terrorists. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .