ACTING’s inaugural report offers most comprehensive resource on Sub-Saharan Africa’s natural gas market trends; Africa to witness increase localization and regionalization of LNG trade on the back of AfCTFA and competitive gas prices; Domestic gas monetization enters a new era of growth in West and East Africa, supported by significant gas-to-power capacity addition; African gas is entering a true decade of diversification with small-scale LNG (Nigeria, South Africa), coal-bed methane (Botswana, South Africa) and helium (Tanzania, South Africa) developments taking shape.  The African Coalition for Trade & Investment in Natural Gas (ACTING) is pleased to announce the release and publication of its inaugural “State of Play: African Gas” report, providing the most comprehensive resource on Sub-Saharan Africa’s natural gas markets.  As several African nations seek to increase the consumption and monetization of natural gas across their economies, the ACTING report highlights that the continent remains one the lowest consumer of gas globally. Low gas penetration rates in sub-Saharan Africa contrast with the vast amount of natural gas reserves found onshore and offshore from Senegal to Mozambique and whose development could lift millions out of poverty and provide the resource the continent needs to industrialise.  By gathering several datasets in a single resource, ACTING’s “State of Play: African Gas” report combines the most up-to-date and accurate information on sub-Saharan African gas markets. It notably reveals that the growth of Africa’s natural gas consumption and production is set to be one of the world’s fastest until 2040 on the back of new LNG projects and strong policy support for natural gas consumption across industries, transport and power. It showcases true success stories in domestic gas monetization in Côte d'Ivoire, Cameroon and Tanzania, and reveals the true diversity of African gas experiences with associated and non-associated gas, LNG, LPG, methane, coal-bed methane, helium and hydrogen.  “An in-depth look at the natural gas dynamics across the sub-continent shows the diversity of each country’s experience with natural gas and the tremendous potential there is for regionalization and cross-border gas cooperation. Natural gas has the potential to be a true enabler of economic recovery post Covid-19 and to support Africa’s energy transition, and this platform will unlock new investment and ultimately create jobs,” stated Nj Ayuk, Executive Chairman at the African Energy Chamber.  Chief amongst the report’s finding is the upcoming growth in gas-to-power generation capacity across sub-Saharan Africa. ACTING expects a 55% growth in grid-connected gas-to-power generation by 2025 on the back of greenfield and brownfield projects and the conversation of coal and diesel power plants to gas in Senegal and South Africa. West Africa is the region expected to see the biggest gas-to-power capacity addition by 2025, with at least 750 MW in Senegal, 643 MW in Côte d'Ivoire, 450 MW in Nigeria, 200 MW in Ghana, 150 MW in Benin and 65 MW in Togo.  “The inaugural report of ACTING lays the foundation for the kind of work and research the Coalition wishes the grow with its institutional and industry partners,” declared Mickael Vogel, Director at Hawilti and coordinator of ACTING. “Information and data on gas markets in sub-Saharan Africa is extremely scarce, which negatively affects the ability of investors and developers to make proper deals and sound decisions. Now is the time for all stakeholders to come together and build the kind of trust and confidence the market needs to benefit the continent at large.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Energy Chamber. Media Contact:
Mickael Vogel
ACTING Coordinator
mickael@actingas.org For news and updates, follow our social media:
Twitter: @actinggas
LinkedIn: African Coalition for Trade & Investment in Natural Gas
Hawilti channel: Gas 4 Africa About ACTING:
The African Coalition for Trade and Investment in Natural Gas (ACTING) is a joint and non-profit initiative of Hawilti and the African Energy Chamber to support the development of a robust natural gas value-chain across the African continent. ACTING gathers leading experts, executives and policy makers around key issues pertaining to natural gas in Africa, from upstream exploration & production, midstream infrastructure, downstream monetization and gas-to-power. ACTING focuses on all the benefits that a broader adoption of natural gas can bring to Africans, especially when it comes to securing access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. The Coalition believes in the promotion of transparent business practices and the adoption of sound environmental, social and corporate governance standards to promote investments across the African gas value chain. By collecting and sharing information and data, we seek to support a broad range of gas industries, including liquefied natural gas (LNG), liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), compressed natural gas (CNG), piped natural gas (PNG), gas-to-power and hydrogen. About the African Energy Chamber: 
Determined to promote growth in the African energy sector, the African Energy Chamber (www.EnergyChamber.org) encourages collaboration between businesses and government and takes a leadership role in shaping policies, sharing best practices and using resources to create local value. The African Energy Chamber is the only pan-African and non-profit institution advocating for a better use of African natural resources to create jobs and work towards shared prosperity. About Hawilti Ltd: 
Hawilti Ltd (www.Hawilti.com) is an investment research and sustainability reporting company that runs the Hawilti App, Africa’s most comprehensive energy investment platform. The company notably works with public and private corporations on the disclosing and distribution of key ESG information in order to make African markets more transparent and competitive globally. Within a single digital space, Hawilti offers the most comprehensive resources on African energy, allowing its users to get the latest information on African markets, track ongoing and upcoming projects and develop solid sector analyses on competitors and market trends. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .