Comprehensive Secondary School, Ogwa battling with St Anthony Secondary School in a recent Delta Principal’s Cup game. The National Principals Cup begins in Lagos…on Friday Players and officials of Igbo College say they are ready to show why they are the school to beat in the 2021 National Principals Cup, which kicks off in Lagos on Friday. Igbobi College is scheduled to meet Government College Kaduna at the Agege Stadium in the opening game of the competition by 11.00 a.m. The Kaduna school is coming with 18 players and three officials, as well as the school’s principal. The competition is a project of the Ministry of Sports in conjunction with the marketing consultants and organisers of the event, Hideaplus Limited. It is open to all secondary schools in the country. To ensure a good outing in the competition, Igbobi College players have intensified training ahead of the opening match billed for Friday. The team in the past two weeks has stepped up preparation at the school’s football pitch. Former internationals like Henry Nwosu, Haruna Ilerika, Stephen Keshi, Adokiye Amesimaka, Samson Siasia, Victor Ikpeba, Tajudeen Disu, Joseph Dosu, Franklin Howard, Paul Okoku, Chris Anigala, Godwin Odiye and Sam Bazuaye are some of the products of the Principals Cup competition. Sports minister, Sunday Dare, has reassured of the ministry’s strong commitment to the National Principals Cup because of its importance. “We expect this event to bring back the lost glory in football at age-grade level especially now that our U-17 and U-20 teams struggle in continental competitions,” he said. The Managing Director of Hideaspus, Tony Pemu, has assured that all arrangements have been concluded for an exciting tournament.
Pemu said: “We have been on this for close to one year and we expect a good take off on Friday after which the preliminaries will start across the states of the federation. “I want to thank the Minister of Sports, Dare, for his huge support and fatherly role played as we go about this project. We want to use the event to serve as feeder tournament for the age grade competitions especially the U-15 and U-17 competitions.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .