Gabbi Tuft wrestled professionally under the name Tyler Reks | Image: Instagram/gabetuft Former WWE talent Gabbi Tuft, who wrestled professionally under the name Tyler Reks in the late 2000s and early 2010s, has come out as a transgender woman. The 42-year-old fitness guru shared the news via a press release on Thursday, calling Gabbi’s journey a ‘thrilling story of gender transitioning.’ “Gabbi is about to share her thrilling story of gender transitioning from a former WWE Superstar, Body Builder, Fitness Guru, Motivational Speaker and Motorcycle Racer to a fun-loving and fabulous female. She has been finally set free and is ready to rule her world,” the statement said. The statement also said that in spite of Tuft’s successes during and after his WWE career, he was still wrestling with a secret persona dwelling deep within him. And that it is a persona he has been hiding. “Finally,” the statement continued. “With the blessing of his loving wife Priscilla, Gabe is ready to reveal who he really is. “He” is now known as “She”: A beautiful, wise, witty and wonderful woman called “Gabbi.”” Tyler Reks | Image: WWE The statement added that the San Francisco-born wrestling star will share more about her transition in an in depth interview on Extra this Friday. Tuft also took to her Instagra, who was active in WWE from 2007-2014, seemingly revealed her transition to fans on Instagram a day earlier, with a recent photo of herself sitting next to an old photo from her wrestling days. “The ball dropped early today as this is now worldwide news. This is me. Unashamed, unabashedly me. This is the side of me that has hidden in the shadows, afraid and fearful of what the world would think; afraid of what my family, friends, and followers would say or do. “I am no longer afraid and I am no longer fearful. I can now say with confidence, that I love myself for WHO I am. “The previous eight months have been some of the darkest of my entire life. The emotional turmoil of being transgender and having to face the world has almost ended me on multiple occasions. However, the day I stopped caring about what other people thought, was the day I truly became limitless and allowed my authentic self to come into the light. Tlyer Reks now Gabe Tuft “My loving wife, family, and closest friends have accepted me for who I am. To them, I am forever grateful. Your support along the way means more than you will ever know. I don’t expect everyone to agree or understand. It’s not my place to change any of your core beliefs. Just know that the outer shell may change, but the soul remains the same. “I know that many of you have questions and, as I have promised, they will all be answered. Tomorrow, on Extra, my interview with Billy Bush airs worldwide. I have included a link in the bio to this interview along with my personal coming out video that explains everything (waiting for Instagram to approve my name change and update the bio – please see my story for the link in the meantime). “I promise to always be transparent and truthful with my journey, and to be a light to those that are in need. This is me. Love always.” “Gabbi Alon Tuft,” she signed out.