Obasanjo Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has urged Nigerians to start living in the consciousness of God’s Kingdom. He said the series of developments being recorded across the country have proved that the people are not prepared for it. The former president, who was the Guest of Honour at the dedication of St. Moses Orimolade Holy Land, the Cenotaph of C&S Founder, at Ojokoro, Ijaye, Lagos State, yesterday, maintained that most people act as if everything starts and ends on Earth. He said: “The situation we have in the country, today, does not show we are preparing for the Kingdom of God, but we have to be prepared. There is always a day of reckoning. Christianity was brought to us and many of our people made great contributions to the faith, but they are unsung heroes now. Missionaries came but we have our own missionaries and leaders. Moses Orimolade was one of them. “It is because of the Church that you and I have the assurance of salvation. Our own church leaders, who paid the prize, also helped in spreading the gospel, and we pray their efforts are not in vain.” Obasanjo also revealed how, as a military Head of State, he intervened in the preservation of the tomb of St. Moses Orimolade, in Ojokoro area of Lagos during construction of the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. Obasanjo said there was no reason the nation’s heroes should not be celebrated or acknowledged. “When I was told the road work would affect Baba Orimolade’s tomb and even the church set up there in his memory, I directed that the road be bent to accommodate preservation of the tomb and the church. “If I had insisted that the road should not be bent or the contractor insisted and I agreed, the body of Orimolade would have been exhumed and the church may not be here. I didn’t know that the action I took in the past would result in what we are witnessing today,” he said. The renowned Evangelist and philanthropist, Rev Mother Esther Abimnola Ajayi urged all Christians to stop discrimination and love one another because the body of Christ can not be divided. Mother Abimbola, who built the multi-million naira edifice, said Nigerians should cultivate the habit of giving, especially to the less privileged and think positive about Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .