 Tinubu  Rivers State Governor Neysom Wike has urged National leader of ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), Bola Tinubu, to channel his energy to other profitable ventures, stating that presidency would be out of reach of his party and himself come 2023 general elections. Wike, who gave Tinubu the advice, yesterday, in Yola, Adamawa State, while on an inspection tour of projects being executed by Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, said with the high performance of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors and alleged failure APC government under President Muhammadu Buhari is recording on daily basis, it is clear that Nigerians would not repeat the mistake of voting a party without direction. “With what I saw today in Adamawa, I wonder how a normal person will not vote PDP again in this state. What is happening in Adamawa State is a replica of what is happening in other PDP states. “With the massive development going on in PDP states and the massive corruption going on under APC regime, it is no longer news that PDP is on its way back to chase out invaders and lawfully take over its house and pilot Nigerians to the promised land,” he stated. The Rivers governor, who applauded Transparency International (TI) rating of Nigeria on corruption, said the present APC leadership accept and protect corrupt persons. “Today, Wike can be the most corrupt governor, but immediately I decamp from PDP to APC, I am no longer corrupt. This means APC is a den for highly corrupt people. These are not my words, I am only quoting APC former national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. Nigerians are intellectuals, they cannot enter again the boat that capsized with them,” he said. Wike noted that Nigeria has never been divided like it is being experienced now under APC regime and that insecurity has become a huge industry under the administration of President Buhari. The governor, who accused media of constitutional betrayal, alleged that under the peaceful government of former President Goodluck Jonathan, media made the world to believe that Nigeria would collapse in the next 24 hours. According to him, the unholy silence of media at a time that the country is under threat of insecurity, economic collapse midwife by unfocused leadership, poses more danger to the country. He advised APC leadership to move to Adamawa State and study how to develop people through projects, saying President Buhari could attest to development strides of Governor Fintiri. Wike urged Fintiri not to be distracted by people he called envious political vultures, but to maintain his tempo of infrastructural development in Adamawa. “Even I, as governor of an oil-producing state, I cannot construct underground flyover. I wonder where Fintiri is getting his money, but this is what we call, in PDP, determination to achieve. It is a strange word to the APC government. If you ask any of them to define development, that is the end of the discussion,” Wike said. Fintiri, who commended Wike for the visit, assured the Rivers State governor that he would continue to offer PDP and Adamawa electorate services that would improve their livelihoods.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .