Fela Anikulapo-Kuti At Orchestra Hall, Detroit 1986 Late Fela Anikulapo Kuti is leading the 2021 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame nominations list after Nigerians took to social media to solicit votes for the musical icon. The Afrobeat pioneer was announced as a nominee of the 2021 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame on Wednesday, February 10, 2021, alongside Mary J. Blige, Kate Bush, Devo, Foo Fighters, The Go-Go’s, Iron Maiden, Jay-Z, Chaka Khan, Carole King, LL Cool J, New York Dolls, Rage Against the Machine, Todd Rundgren, Tina Turner and Dionne Warwick. Congratulations to the #RockHall2021 Nominees! Read more about this list and the 2021 Induction at https://t.co/iL9HlcGbDd pic.twitter.com/HWaQzuPsS3 — Rock Hall (@rockhall) February 10, 2021  According to the chairman of the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Foundation, John Skyles, “This remarkable ballot reflects the diversity and depth of the artists and music the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame celebrates. “These Nominees have left an indelible impact on the sonic landscape of the world and influenced countless artists that have followed them.” If Kuti wins, he will make history as the first Nigerian artist in the Rock and Roll hall of fame. Fela Kuti is remembered as an influential icon who was brave enough to boldly voice his opinions on matters that affected the nation through his music. At the height of his popularity, he was referred to as one of Africa’s most “challenging and charismatic music performers.” To be eligible, an individual artist or band must have released its first commercial recording at least 25 years prior to the year of nomination. Fela Kuti, as at the time of this report is leading the list Below are the reactions of some Nigerians, including celebrities that have solicited votes for Fela. Grammy-nominated singer Burna Boy tweeted: “Let’s get the legend FELA KUTI inducted into the Rock n Roll hall of fame!” https://t.co/cb2mGWJTuL one time for BABA FELA !! — Davido (@davido) February 12, 2021  Nigerians took this Fela voting personal. Watching your vote count as a Nigerian is therapeutic. pic.twitter.com/hirR2rW9xN — High•Chief °° (@Geraldcake) February 12, 2021  Don Jazzy: “Come on Nigerians ! We can do this. This is our Baba Fela we are talking about o. https://vote.rockhall.com Vote for Fela Anikulapo Kuti for a well-deserved place in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame” As at last night Fela had the least votes… Nigerians, Africans, let’s pretend like this is Big Brother Naija and pepper dem https://t.co/FBPIHU30nF Vote for Fela Anikulapo Kuti for a well-deserved place in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame#VoteForFela — Banky Wellington (@BankyW) February 11, 2021  Nigerians are seeing their vote count for the first time
Keep voting Fela and Retweeting Tina Turner go know say Na Garri Turner hit am Keep voting https://t.co/bf6rjeUqdG pic.twitter.com/8Ugx5uOdDC — KiNG D!V!NE Esq (@Divineze) February 12, 2021  Comedian Debo Macaroni wrote: “I humbly call on my amazing followers on here to cast a vote for the Legendary Fela Kuti to be inducted into the Rock N Roll hall of fame. ” Vote Fela Kuti, Nigerians carry the matter on top head already . We have the time, at least we’ll see our votes count. — Zyy (@Chiomzy__) February 12, 2021 