Ayorinde Faboro also known as Dr Frabz or Doktafrabz | Image: Instagram/doktafrabz Nigerian music producer Ayorinde Faboro popularly known as Dr Frabz has died. Dr Frabz, who is known for working with Wizkid, Omawumi, Davido and the late Dagrin, reportedly died in the United States. His colleague Samklef announced on his Twitter page: “One of Nigeria legendary producer just died. Sad day for me.” Samklef added: “Rip legend! Ayo ( dr Frabz) We spoke 2 weeks ago u asked how is Houston treating me? I came to Maryland yesterday only for me to hear that u are no more today. What a sad day! A brother is gone! another producer is gone! RIP!” According to singer Nikki Laoye, Dr Frabz was allegedly shot. “Oh my God .. My dear brother, Dr Frabz @DoktaFrabz.. This is such terrible news. Just heard that he was shot… Who did this? I am so pained Right now” He was born and raised in Lagos where he started his music career at Archbishop Vining Memorial Church Cathedral in Ikeja. The music producer during his early music years started as a pianist and drummer. He also played other Sunday School instruments as a kid. He became a music producer professionally while studying International Relations at Covenant University. He worked for Don Jazzy and D’banj’s Mo’ Hits Record. Dr. Frabz produced hit songs such as Dagrin’s “Thank God”, WizKid’s “Bombay”, and “Joy” among many others and was the music director for the fourth season of Nigerian Idol. Following the reports of his death, a number of Nigerian celebrities have taken to their social media to express their condolence. Rip frabz …. — Davido (@davido) February 28, 2021  This life is really beans! That’s why it’s so important to live life to the fullest. I’m grateful that u shared your talent with the world. Rest in Paradise Dr. Frabz  pic.twitter.com/RGq3uTvCHz — Emma Nyra (@EmmaNyra) February 28, 2021  Rest in paradise my brother my friend. Ayo (Dr Frabz) We had big dreams but God knows best. I’m grateful for the life you lived and the hits you made. You a genuis, your legacy will live forever. Good night Frabinabebo aka Jugunu  pic.twitter.com/Cga6qOCGv7 — DJ Neptune #NoBodyIconsRemix (@deejayneptune) February 28, 2021  Checked on him on snap few weeks ago..RIP Dr Frabz! Good spirit — Shizzi (@shizzi) February 27, 2021 