 (FILES) In this file photo taken on February 6, 2015 Nigeria’s Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala attends the Franco-African forum at the Economy Ministry in Paris. – Nigerian economist Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala was appointed on February 15, 2021 as the first female and first African head of the World Trade Organization, at a special general meeting. (Photo by Eric PIERMONT / AFP)  Wife of Abia State governor, Nkechi Ikpeazu, has described the new Director General (DG) of the World Trade Organization (WTO) Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as the pride of Nigerian women whose appointment should inspire women. She spoke yesterday while lauding the WTO leadership for her appointment saying her emergence was not a fluke but a product of dedicated focused career-oriented life, which demonstrated the capacity that women have in achieving excellence. According to Ikpeazu who spoke through her Chief Press Secretary, Chika Ojiegbe, she said Okonjo-Iweala is a positive lesson about balancing between happy family life and a successful career. She also recalled that Okonjo-Iweala’s 25-year stint at the World Bank where she rose to the number two position as well as her stewardship as Nigeria’s two-time Minister of Finance and Foreign Affairs, is a story of hard work, perseverance and forthrightness that buttresses the fact that women are capable of reaching any height they set their mind to. Ikpeazu congratulated her on her new appointment and assured her that Abia women would continue to pray for her success not only as WTO DG but in all her other endeavours. Meanwhile, Managing Director of the Nigeria Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), George Moghalu also commended the Federal Government for backing her to the hilt. He said that her choice as the new helmsman of the WTO is another loud and cheering global confirmation of the ability, capability, capacity and implicit confidence in Nigerians. Moghalu who is contesting in the November 6, 2021 Governorship election in Anambra under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) said that with Okonjo-Iweala’s rich and powerful resume, he’s sure she would do well on the job. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .