Bobby Shmurda – Getty-Bennett Raglin It was indeed a week of new beginnings. From those who gained freedom and the chance to change to those whose positions it is thought will inspire the will to live. Catch up on all the trendy stories of last week: Minister of loneliness
Recall when former Imo state governor, Rochas Okorocha, appointed his sister, “Commissioner for Happiness and Couples’ Fulfilment”? Well, Japan’s current administration taken a similar step with its appointment of a “minister of loneliness” in a bid to reduce loneliness and social isolation among its residents as the country deals with rising suicide rates. In Japan, kodokushi (or lonely deaths) are common. They involve people dying inside their homes and remaining undiscovered for long periods of times. According to reports, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga created the role in early February. Tetsushi Sakamoto who will take on the role will handle the country’s falling birth rates and regional economies. Shmurda returns
The rap community was in wild jubilation after one of their own got back on the streets after six long years. Brooklyn rapper Bobby Shmurda has finally been released from prison. The “Hot Ni***” rapper will be under community supervision in Kings County until he completes his sentence on February 23, 2026. A quick run: Shmurda was arrested in December 2014 on gang conspiracy charges. Prosecutors claimed the rapper had a leading role in the GS9 gang in East Flatbush, Brooklyn. The arrest came on the heels of massive viral popularity surrounding “Hot N—a” and the ubiquitous Vine where he threw his hat and hit the Shmoney Dance. Mrs El Chapo
Mexico’s most notorious cartel boss, Joaquín “El Chapo” Guzmán, has been arrested in Virginia on drug trafficking charges. The 31-year-old US-Mexican citizen is charged with conspiring to distribute cocaine, methamphetamine, heroin, and marijuana for importation into the US. She has also been charged with allegedly conspiring to help arrange Guzmán’s spectacular escape through a mile-long tunnel from the high-security Altiplano prison in Mexico in July 2015. Before her husband’s sentencing, she told a sympathetic TV interviewer that Guzmán was a “humble” man and complained that the media had made El Chapo “too famous”. Adesua | Image: Instagram/adesuaetomi Joyous celebration
Nigerians have celebrated, on no small scale, the birth of the son of Nigerian actress Adesua Etomi, and her husband actor and singer Banky W. The actress revealed on her Instagram page that she welcomed a son four weeks ago. She wrote, “You have a track record of keeping your word. Ọlọrun agbaye o, you are mighty. 4 weeks ago I received the best birthday gift ever. Our Son. 1+1=3”. Banky W in a separate Instagram post revealed the baby’s name as “Zaiah”. If you are wondering, Zaiah is everyone’s baby too, so welcome home, Zaiah! PACIFIC PALISADES, CALIFORNIA – FEBRUARY 13: Tiger Woods of the United States plays his shot from the second tee during the first round of the Genesis Invitational on February 13, 2020 in Pacific Palisades, California. Harry How/Getty Images/AFP<br />Harry How / GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA / AFP In The Woods
Golf legend Tiger Woods is thankful for life. Woods suffered serious injuries to both legs as his car flew off the road near Los Angeles, U.S, in a crash he was “very fortunate” to survive, law enforcement officials who found him said. Woods did not appear to be under the influence of drugs or alcohol during the early morning incident and underwent surgery after the roll-over collision. Fortunately, no other vehicles or passengers were involved in the crash which occurred on a steep stretch of road known as a “hotspot” for high-speed accidents in recent years. He is “awake, responsive and recovering in his hospital room.”