Tanko Yakasai and Governor Umaru Ganduje Special Adviser to Governor Abdullah Umar Ganduje on social media, Salihu Tanko Yakasai has been arrested by security agents. Salihu, a social media activist was picked Friday evening at his resident few hours after his social media outburst against president Muhammad Buhari. Elder stateman and second republic Commissioner for Information in Kano, Alh. Tanko Yakasai confirmed the arrest of his son to journalists through a telephone call on Saturday. Alh. Yakasai, who was not specific on the identity of the operatives, said his son was apprehended in his neighbourhood on his way to the salon. According to him, Salihu has been moved to Abuja. Spokesperson of Kano state police command, DSP Abdullai Haruna told The Guardian he was not aware of the development. He however pleaded for time to cross check and revert back. Ostensibly depressed with the recent security situation in the country, Salihu in his verified twitter challenged the President to nip the tons of insecurity threatening the country in the bond or better still tender his resignation. Besides, Yakasai had insisted that the Governors and ruling All Progressives Congress APC have failed in their primary responsibility to secure lives and property of citizenry. Yakasai lambasted the Nigeria Government on his verified twitter handle @dawisu on Friday in reaction to Thursday night abduction of about 317 female students of Government Girls Secondary School in Jangebe, Talata Mafara Local Government Area of Zamfara State. In the social media coment, Yakasai said, “clearly, we as APC government, at all levels, have failed Nigerians in the number 1 duty we were elected to do which is to secure lives & properties. Not a single day goes by without some sort of insecurity in this land. This is a shame! Deal with terrorists decisively or resign.” “Just last week it was #freekagaraboys, today we have a new hashtag #RescueJangebeGirls, who knows tomorrow what hashtag we will come up with? Perhaps one for ourselves when we get caught up in one of these daring attacks. This is sad & heartbreaking, I feel helpless & hopeless,” Yakasai tweeted. “I completely agree. Hypocrisy is in our dna. Imagine what’s happening in the North now was under GEJ or OBJ, sai dai ka ji ana makiyin arewa ne, makiyin musulmi ne (meaning you will hear it’s the enemy of the North and Muslims), but here we are, being ravaged by all sorts of insecurity but no collective rage, sai useless lamentations. SMDH.” This is not the first time Yakasai is lambasting Nigeria Government on failure to end incessant security threat. The last utterances on President Buhari sometimes last year led to his two months suspension. Yakasai who voiced against the president silent reaction to the EndSARS protest noted on the same twitter handle, :I’ ve never seen a govt with zero empathy like that of Buhari, So many times when his people are going through difficult time and expect some sort of shoulder to reassure them that he is in charge but he failed to do so.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .