The Ibadan zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested 39 internet fraud suspects, known as ‘Yahoo-Yahoo Boys’. Ten of them were arrested at Ilesha, Osun State, while Twenty-nine others were arrested in different locations at Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State. Those arrested at Ilesha are: Oyesoji Tosin, Olaniyi Emmanuel, Samson Ojo, Sodiq Sunkanmi, Kolawole Abiodun, Oluwole Gbenga, Olajuyigbe Olamide, Oyebanji Olabisi Temitope, Ayoola Oluwafemi, and Oluwatobiloba Gbadamosi. The suspects arrested at Ago-Iwoye include Emmanuel Lawal, Kareem Olamide, Adekunle Kehinde Salawu, Bella Tijesu, Aderibigbe Adedoyin, Anifowose Hammed, Lateef Adetayo, Busari Oluwatobi, Tobi Adeyemi, Gabriel Obisesan, Oluwole Olasunkanmi and Odetola Samson. Others are Farouq Dosu, Ayilara Akindeji, Ademola Adedare, Ishola Adeleke, Alex Olasunmade, Idowu Abolaji, Okegbenro Idris, Akinlolu Akintunde, Oshoboke Shashaeniyan, Adeyemi Opeyemi, Oluwatoyin Olutekunbi, Albert Charles, Olawuyi Olanrewaju, Tunde Adekoya, Gbolahan Olalekan, Alade Oluwasegun and Ajanaku Qudus. The suspects were arrested after series of surveillance based on intelligence on their alleged criminal activities. Items recovered from them include seven cars, laptop computers, mobile phones, and several documents containing false presences. Also, a special team of the Tactical Operations Unit of the Abuja Zonal Office of the commission has arrested six suspected internet fraudsters from their hideouts in Jos, Plateau State. The suspects, aged 23 to 33 years, who are believed to be involved in romance and other related internet fraud, were arrested in the early hours of Monday, February 8, 2021, following actionable intelligence received by the commission. They include Paul Chukwuemeka Obide (a.k.a, Don P), Chinaza Obide, and Obadare Obayemi. Others are Emmanuel Adetunji, Ndubuisi Kerian Ozomba and Samuel Chukwuebuka. Items recovered from them include Lexus RX350 with registration number, RSH-58IML; Honda Accord with a registered number, JJN-35AA; six laptop computers; MiFis; Modems; Flash drives; Card readers, and exotic mobile phones. The spokesperson of the EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren said the suspects have made useful statements and will soon be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .