 Flooding ravaging a community in Nigeria  Adaptation, which means reducing countries’ and communities’ vulnerability to climate change by increasing their ability to absorb impacts, is a key pillar of the Paris agreement on climate change. The agreement requires its signatories to implement adaptation measures through national plans, climate information systems, early warning, protective measures and investments in a green future.  However, the finance needed to implement these plans is not growing fast enough. The pace of adaptation financing is indeed rising, but it continues to be outpaced by rapidly increasing adaptation costs. Annual adaptation costs in developing countries are estimated at $70 billion. This figure is expected to reach $140 to 300 billion in 2030 and between  $280 to 500 billion in 2050.
   
There are some encouraging developments. The Green Climate Fund (GCF) has allocated 40 per cent of its total portfolio to adaptation and is increasingly crowding-in private sector investment. Another important development is increasing momentum to ensure a sustainable financial system.  However, the world must also plan for, finance and implement climate change adaptation to support those nations least responsible for climate change but most at risk.
     
While the COVID-19 pandemic is expected to hit the ability of countries to adapt to climate change, investing in adaptation is a sound economic decision.
  
“The hard truth is that climate change is upon us,” said Inger Andersen, Executive Director of UNEP. “Its impacts will intensify and hit vulnerable countries and communities the hardest – even if we meet the Paris Agreement goals of holding global warming this century to well below 2°C and pursuing 1.5°C.”
    
“As the UN Secretary-General has said, we need a global commitment to put half of all global climate finance towards adaptation in the next year,” she added. “This will allow a huge step up in adaptation in everything from early warning systems to resilient water resources and nature-based solutions.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .