Ajiboye During the thick of the lockdown, many Nigerians supported families and gave them hope; Seun Ajiboye was one of them. The Babcock University graduate and founder of Sessylush Hair donated food items, and beauty accessories to families, especially women and lone parents with zero support system. Ajiboye who holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics, is also one of the Alumni of Idea Builders Initiative’s Women Mentoring Women, a platform that not only groomed her as a business woman, but also availed her the opportunity to have her own voice and identity. Prior to starting Sessylush Hair, she worked in the bank and equally headed several teams in a forex firm. Her desire to make every woman a diva with premium, affordable and lush hairs led to the establishment of the beauty outfit. Sessylushair is a hair and lifestyle brand that encourages women to remain beautiful and slay always with affordable and lush wigs, bundles and accessories, while also giving back to humanity and grooming other women in her line of business. Married with kids, and very passionate about humanity, she shares her inspiring story with Esther Ijewere in this interview. Childhood Influence
I have always loved fashion; I love to look good. I fell in love with weaves and I have decided to help every lady look good with great hair at a remarkable price. Inspiration behind SessyLush Hair
The desire to provide quality and lush human hair at the best price possible. I want every woman to look the part, and be able to afford beauty products that boost their confidence, and general outlook. The journey so far
It has been a rollercoaster of emotions. We are grateful for the reception thus far; it’s been overwhelming, but we are taking it one step at a time, hoping to keep breaking boundaries Other projects and activities
I am into forex and I also mentor youths, especially young women who need clarity on how to navigate their startup business. Being A Mother, Wife And Business Woman
I try my best to manage it well. I take it every day at a time and I am very keen on outsourcing; I don’t exert energy on things that are not my forté How Sessylush Hair Has Impacted My Growth As A Business Woman
It has taught me patience; it has taught me how to be more accountable. It has tested me in ways I can’t express. It’s an amazing journey and I am excited for what the future holds. My Support System 
I am a lover of God and am grateful for where He is taking me. I am also grateful for a supportive spouse; my husband has been amazing and I appreciate him for being my number one fan and support system. Being A Woman of Rubies
I love to see other women soar and prosper, I love to also teach them how to fish, and avail them the opportunity to grow and pay it forward to others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .