BRT Operators of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in Lagos State, Primero Transport Services Ltd. has apologised for some logistics hitches being faced by commuters since the introduction of Cowry cards for transport fare payment. The Managing Director of the firm, Mr Fola Tinubu, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Lagos that the company was working with the state government to remove the hitches. According to him, the firm understands the challenges faced by commuters, including delays, and is working to resolve all of them. “Primero is not in charge of Cowry cards. It is the Lagos State innovation for transportation transactions. “With this state-wide cards, a commuter can use it, not just in Primero buses, but on all regulated Lagos State buses. “Commuters having some hitches in the switch should bear with us, we are working with the Lagos State to perfect it. “We have some teething problems in terms of logistics since the Cowry card was introduced on Monday for Primero Transport Service across all our routes; we are sorry,” Tinubu said. He said that the cards had many advantages for commuters, noting that it could be used across all routes in all buses being regulated by the state government. According to him, commuters will also be able to use it on ferries and train, when ready. “We assure that in the long run, it will be good for everybody, ” Tinubu added. The managing director said that the firm had swapped the old card for a new one. NAN reports that the state government through the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) had directed the firm to begin use of cowry cards on its corridors, from last Monday. Cowry Card, an e-ticketing system, has been in use on the Oshodi to Abule Egba BRT route by the high-capacity Marcopolo buses. The state government said that the use of the cards had become imperative to reduce cash transactions in transport operations in order to contain the spread of COVID-19. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .