Lupita Nyongo | Image: Getty Images Lupita Nyong’o‘s children’s book “Sulwe” will be adapted into an animated musical for Netflix, the Oscar award-winning actress announced on Thursday. “Sulwe is going to be an animated movie!! Thank you to the readers of all ages who have joined #Sulwe on her starry ride. I’m so excited for this next adventure on @Netflix,” Nyong’o wrote on Twitter. Sulwe is going to be an animated movie!! Thank you to the readers of all ages who have joined #Sulwe on her starry ride. I’m so excited for this next adventure on @Netflix!  #BrightnessIsJustWhoYouAre pic.twitter.com/AmHeC5G9KV — Lupita Nyong’o (@Lupita_Nyongo) February 18, 2021  Written by Nyong’o and illustrated by Vashti Harrison, the book follows a young Kenyan girl named Sulwe, who wishes for her dark skin to be lighter. One night, Sulwe is visited by a shooting star sent by the Night that opens her eyes and changes her perspective. “Sulwe” is a story about colourism, self-esteem and understanding that true beauty comes from within. “The story of Sulwe is one that is very close to my heart,” Nyong’o, who was raised in Kenya, said in a statement today. “Growing up, I was uncomfortable in my dark skin. I rarely saw anyone who looked like me in the aspirational pages of books and magazines, or even on TV. It was a long journey for me to arrive at self-love.” Lupita Nyong’o – Sulwe | Image: AP/Netflix She continued: “Sulwe is a mirror for dark-skinned children to see themselves, a window for those who may not be familiar with colorism, to have understanding and empathy, and an invitation for all who feel different and unseen to recognize their innate beauty and value. I am thrilled that the book is being adapted into an animated musical that we hope inspires children all around the world to celebrate their uniqueness.” Lupita Nyong’o became the first Kenyan and Mexican actress to win an Academy Award for her role in the biographical period drama “12 Years a Slave” (2013). She is vocal about preventing sexual harassment, working for women’s and animal rights. In 2014, she was named the most beautiful woman by People. 