Georgina, 44, with her daughter Jess Aldridge, 24, and boyfriend Ryan Shelton, 29 A father-of-two ran off with his girlfriend’s mother just days after the daughter gave birth to his baby son. 29-year-old Ryan Shelton and his pregnant girlfriend Jess Aldridge, 24, were living in a family support bubble with Aldridge’s mother, Georgina, 44, and her husband, Eric, at a semi-detached home in Gloucestershire, United Kingdom. Daily Mail reported that the grandmother-of-six began flirting with Shelton, who is car parts salesman, just weeks afterwards, and they began an affair while Aldridge was still heavily pregnant. By the time Aldridge returned home from hospital with her newborn, Reuben, her mother and the boyfriend had run off together and moved into a new home 30 miles away. In a chat with The Sun, a ‘heartbroken’ Aldridge said: “It’s the ultimate betrayal. You expect a new grandmother to fall in love with the baby — not the father. She is meant to be a granny to my two children and helping me look after them but instead, she’s off sh***ing my boyfriend.” Aldridge – who already shared a two-year-old daughter, Georgiana, with Shelton, said she first decided to move back in with her mother in the hopes that she would be able to help her with childcare. However, over the course of a few months, Aldridge began to notice her boyfriend and mother “always being so flirty” and drinking Bacardi while “joking around in the kitchen every night”. When she confronted the pair they denied anything was happening but Aldridge later discovered they had been having a secret affair during her pregnancy. On January 28, Aldridge welcomed her son Reuben into the world via C- section at Gloucestershire Royal Hospital. But just hours later, she received a text message from Mr Shelton, who had only seen Reuben for a few minutes after he was born and for ten minutes the day after, ending their three-year relationship. After she was discharged, Aldridge was shocked to discover her mother and Shelton had fled and gone to live together elsewhere. Daily Mail reported that the mother is said to have told her daughter that “we can’t help who we fall in love with.” Shelton and Georgina have now confirmed that they are a relationship on Facebook. Speaking for the first time, Ryan, who is now living with Georgina, told MailOnline: “I don’t care what everyone thinks, I am in love with Georgina and I don’t care who knows about it. Other people’s opinions don’t bother me at all. I know what’s happened. “There are two sides to every story and I know the truth behind all this. Not everyone will like what’s happened but it’s none of their business.”