Tim Owhefere “Momoh told us he was going for spiritual check up’ Clerk of the Delta State House of Assembly, Mrs. Lyna Aliya Ocholor, has described the late Majority Leader, Tim Kome Owhefere, as an exceptional lawmaker and excellent team player, who showed kindness to its management and staff. Ocholor said this shortly after the valedictory session held in honour of the deceased lawmaker at the House of Assembly Complex in Asaba. Owhefere, who represented Isoko North constituency reportedly died at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Asaba on Wednesday, January 27, 2021 from COVID-19 complications. Her words: “Tim Owhefere was an exceptional legislator, kind-hearted to the management and staff and was full of service and sacrifice. He was a motivator, simple and easy to access anytime. He contributed greatly to the maintenance of peace, stability and mutual cooperation among members of the House of Assembly” She prayed God to grant the Assembly members and the bereaved families the fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss.
ALSO, Esivwe Momoh. grandson of the late Prince Tony Momoh, told The Guardian in Lagos that the deceased acted like someone who had foreknowledge of his death. “As if he knew it was time, he told us last week that he was going for spiritual check up. He took photographs with his family members in January. That was unusual,” he said. Continuing, Esivwe said: “We spoke on Monday morning and he told us he was fine, but when we returned from work in the evening, we got the news. He trained, imparted and mentored me. He lived by example, he never spoiled us, he always tell us to be focused.” Prince Aderemi Iyiola and his wife wrote on the condolence register: ”I missed you without any information that you are leaving us. But God Almighty knows everything. May your goodness to mankind guide your soul. Rest in peace. Patrick Adedoyin wrote: “He was a very humble man, a man of peace that loves everybody he knows. Rest in peace. On his part, professor of Mass Communication, Idowu Shobowale said: “Nigeria has lost a giant. He gave all his best to the media industry. We pray that God should stop the spirit of sudden death among our giants. May his soul rest in peace.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .