 Adult choir ministering at the programme titled, From Sorrow To Joy  Master key, also known as passkey, is a security key specially configured to open every padlock, house door locks, car ignitions locks and doors generally. Whenever it is used on any lock, it opens it safely without resetting the structure of the lock, to the extent that if the original key is eventually brought, it again opens the lock without any indication that the lock has been tampered with. It is only in special cases that master keys are used. It is this master key that God has given His disciples through spoken words of binding and loosening. Standing on God’s Word, we can make a declaration to bind anything we do not want and loosen anyone in the Devil’s bondage, and Heaven will uphold our declarations. God has the authority to empower His disciples to do anything that is in accordance with His Will and upholds our actions, when executed as He has the power to do such. The Bible says in Psalm 62:11,“God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God.” The Bible has emphatically made us understand that power belongs to God. His volition empowered our Lord Jesus Christ, His only begotten Son and through Jesus Christ, the Christians, the disciples of Jesus Christ are given the authority to act. In Matthew 28:18-20, the Bible records thus, “And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. 19 Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: 20 Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world, Amen.” Our Lord Jesus Christ has been given all power in Heaven and on earth. The power of salvation of souls is in His hand. He makes impossibilities possible. It was in His power He raised the dead, healed the sick and even blessed people in time of His earthly ministry. Our Lord Jesus Christ raised Lazarus from the dead four days after burial. In John 11:39-44 the Bible presents it thus, “Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days. 40 Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God? 41 Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. 42 And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which standby I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me. 43 And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. 44 And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with grave clothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.” Our Lord Jesus Christ demonstrated that power that has been given to Him by raising a dead person that has stayed in the grave for four days. The same scenario played out at the gate of City of Nain, where Our Lord Jesus met a group of people carrying the corpse of the only son of a widow to the burial place. The woman qwas crying but Jesus stopped her from crying, touched the casket and the bearers stopped. He called the dead man to rise, he stood and started talking. He handed him over to the mother. This deliverance power, the master key through spoken words has been handed down to the apostles and all the disciples of Jesus Christ when he said in Mark 16:15-18, “And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. 16 He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned. 17 And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; 18.They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.” Spiritual empowerment is likened to a relay race. Whoever receives uses it to deliver other people, empowering them as well. Moses, upon being endowed with the master key, used it to deliver the Israelites from the land of bondage in Egypt. Joshua took over from him and brought the people to the Promised Land. You are delivered and empowered to affect the lives of other people. Again the Bible records in Luke10: 19, “Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt you.” It is indeed a holistic package God has prepared for the disciples of Jesus Christ. The believers are given the master key that by spoken words, they have the power to bind whatever they do not want and loosen whosoever is in the Devil’s bondage, and Heaven will uphold their declarations. In doing so, they are to raise the dead and heal the sick, while preaching the salvation message of the Kingdom. The Devil and his agents will no longer have power over the disciples of Jesus Christ, hence when they step on scorpions, deadly snakes, charms or even eat poisoned food, nothing will happen to them because there is a Divine protection. As you’re reading this message, if you are genuinely born again, bear in mind that from the very day you gave your life to Christ, you are a potential holder of this master key. You only need to put it into practice, and you will see that God will use you to do exploits. However, if you have not repented, give your life to Jesus now, renounce all your sins, begin to live holy and righteous life, this master key will naturally come to you. Every disciple who follows his master faithfully will be like the master. When you have received this power, make good use of it by preaching to the perishing souls, and by the grace of God, you will convert and deliver them from the Devil’s bondage and you will make Heaven at last in Jesus name. Testimony Of The Lord’s Doing
King Of Python Kingdom Surrenders To God Of Chosen
Mm name is Brother Emeka Okafor. I came from Anambra State and I worship at The Lord’s Chosen headquarters on Owerri Road. I thank God for making me a Chosen. I am here to thank God of Chosen for saving and delivering me from the kingdom of darkness called the python kingdom. When I was in that kingdom, I was their king. I was made the kingdom’s king marshal. My deliverance started on the very day I was asked to come and re-arrest him. When I was a three-month- old baby, I was initiated into the python kingdom by the queen. By this time, I started visiting them, but when I was 13, I joined them. My deliverance today came as a result of my coming to bring back into the kingdom (that is brother Emeka Ezeka standing by my right hand side, who was in the Karashika kingdom before. But he was delivered around March and he testified during the Port-Harcourt crusade). While in the kingdom, I was praying with the queen and lived with her. When I was 13 years old, the queen called me and showed me my palace and what I should do to inherit it. The palace, the vehicles, money and buildings, including herself as my wife to be, if only I would fulfil what she was going to tell me. She said I should deliver 1000 souls to her within two years. That was the condition by which I could sit on the throne. She used that to test whether I had the guts to kill. She put me in a black ark and I started killing people in Enugu. She gave me up to two years to deliver 1000 souls, but I killed and supplied the 1000 souls to the kingdom within one year. The queen then called me and said I was qualified to be the king. On my coronation day, all the other kings were invited and the queen was also there. It was a very big day in my life and that of the queen, as it was also our wedding day. After my coronation, I wedded the queen and other queens were in attendance. 	The queen gave me a wedding ring and I also gave her one. So, I was the king of the Python Kingdom and other kings were under me. After our wedding, the queen gave me an assignment to go into the world and kill and initiate people into the kingdom. She said born-again Christians are our greatest problem. She said I should go, kill and initiate them. As the king of the python kingdom, I was not supposed to remain in the world. My body was supposed to be killed in the world and my spirit would be on the throne. The queen told me that there was no more time. She said I should remain in the world to kill the Christians and initiate them into the kingdom. So, I started killing and among the major people I killed were pastors. Among the churches I visited, I killed their Pastors, which is why I told everybody that is here to remain a Chosen and live a holy and righteous life. The Lord’s Chosen is the only church that torments kingdoms, which are afraid of The Chosen. Our former kingdom had a problem in Kano and I was not supposed to leave my kingdom but due to the urgency and importance to win more souls to the kingdom, I had to move to Kano. I was told that there was a Pastor that was disturbing them and taking our members to the Kingdom of God. Hence, I had to move to Kano to kill and torment the Pastor, although the queen warmed me not to go, but I decided to go, knowing the powers I had and the one that the queen gave me. On getting to Kano, I discovered that it was a Chosen Pastor. In fact, our State Coordinator here in Anambra State was the Pastor-in-charge of Kano Lord’s Chosen branch then. On getting to Kano, I came to the church compound. I did not enter the church, due to the fire in that church. I came back and asked my queen why I was not able to enter the church. She said I did not prepare very well. Then I gave myself 21- day dry fasting to prepare very well and return to Kano and attack The Lord’s Chosen Pastor and members. I also gave the same instruction to my boys, so that they would also fast. After the fasting, I went back to Kano, but I did not succeed and I returned. Then the devil came to me and told me that there was a boy he loved so much in Karashika Kingdom, but that the Lord’s Chosen had delivered him from that kingdom. He said I should go to Anambra State and recover him back. He showed me the boy’s picture and the testimony and it was him – (this Emeka Ezeka). I asked him why he allowed the Lord’s Chosen people to deliver. Emeka Ezeka, you said your kingdom Karashika kingdom has more power than the python kingdom. I knew Eze as the king of Karashika kingdom, and he was also a powerful leader – the devil lied to me by telling me that Emeka surrendered himself to them. I came to Anambra State and there was a programme that The Lord’s Chosen was holding and I went there. When I saw him, he was looking at me and I was trying to see how he could follow me out but he did not. I applied all that I had to lure him out, but it did not work. At the end of the day, I went back to the kingdom and told the queen what happened. I told queen that I did not succeed in Kano and Anambra State; that I didn’t know the God this The Lord’s Chosen are serving; that their God is too much. The queen told me that it was a great God but that our god – the devil is greater than their God. The queen told me that I should pretend I was a Chosen, so that I could initiate all their youths and also recover Emeka back to Karashika Kingdom. This was a two-day programme titled, “My Time to Testify.” On the second day, the first fire (Holy Ghost Fire) was too much for me and right there, I vomited the engagement ring from my mouth. As soon as I vomited the ring, all the powers I had and the ones that were given to me by the queen and devil left my body. At that time, I was delivered from the Python Kingdom. When I came here yesterday to testify, I was asked to wait for my turn by testimony interviewers, as the rain was heavy. Almost immediately the General Overseer mounted the pulpit, he asked everybody to come out and put their hands on their chests, which I did. By then, the queen appeared before me and entered into my body and commanded me to kill the General Overseer. She sent an arrow to the Pastor, but the fire on the pulpit and the angels that surround him sent back the arrow to the queen. And when I threw my own arrow to the Pastor, it returned to me and it hit on my forehead. I fell down and did not know where I was and what happened next. But I found myself in that kingdom again and I was tied both legs and hands. Suddenly, a giant wearing white with sword in his hand appeared. He used the sword and cut the chains on both my hands and legs and asked me to go, that I was free from all bondage. Then I opened my eyes and saw myself on the ground with my clothes on, and people began to tell me stories of what transpired when I fell under anointing. Indeed, I thank God of Chosen for saving and delivering me from the kingdom of darkness. I pray for our Pastor, State Coordinators and other members. Heaven at last in Jesus name! To God be the glory! Bro. Emeka Okafor, Onitsha, Anambra State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .