 NDLEA PHOTO: Twitter  The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has intercepted a container load of Tramadol at the Apapa seaport in Lagos, just as its operatives have arrested 90 persons including an Indian during raids of some drug cartels in some parts of Lagos, where a total of 614.396 kilograms of various hard drugs were seized. At the Apapa seaport, about two million capsules of Tramadol (precisely 1,994,400 capsules) tucked in 554 cartons were intercepted in the container, which was falsely declared to contain ceramic tiles.
 
According to the Apapa seaport NDLEA Area Commander, Mr. Samuel Gadzama, one of the containers bearing the illicit drug had been intercepted and seized in Kenya. “Though the second container found its way to Nigeria, but the eagle eyes of our narcotic agents discovered it during a joint inspection of the ship,” he said. In the same vein, operatives of the Lagos Command has raided some drug spots in Agege, Ikorodu, Lekki, Okokomaiko and other parts of the state and dismantled major drug syndicates, arrested suspects and seized large quantities of hard drugs.
 
During the raids, a total of 90 suspects including an Indian were arrested while over 614 kg of various types of drugs were seized. One of the drug syndicates busted is coordinated by one Samuel Ebenezer in Lekki, whose cartel imports special sophisticated drugs baked in cakes, biscuits and cookies from the United States and sells to the rich and affluent in Lekki and Lagos Island.
 
The second syndicate is coordinated by an Indian, Inderpreet Singh, a.k.a. Bobby, who imports Tramadol from India and sells in Nigeria from his Osy Agomo Close, Apple Estate, Amuwo Odofin area of Lagos. Mr. Singh is also a dealer in tricycle parts. Arrested with him is a Nigerian, one Sylvester Omoredien.
 
In his reaction, chairman of NDLEA, General Mohamed Buba Marwa (Rtd) commended the commanders and officers involved in the operations for their efforts even as he charged them to remain focused on the maxim of his leadership, that is, offensive action against illicit drug users, peddlers, traffickers and the barons. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .