• As FG powers Gombe communities Stakeholders in the energy sector have stressed the need for Nigeria to intensify efforts on improved electricity supply to boost the standard of living. Gombe State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, tied constant power supply to sustainable means of increasing people’s income. Speaking at the inauguration of 85KWP solar hybrid project in Dakitti community, Akko Local Government Area, which was built through the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Yahaya said the development would improve business activities and productivity. He also said constant supply has the capacity of ensuring quality education, adding that the government would support all electrification projects in the state. The Managing Director, Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad, encouraged the community to optimize the intervention and leverage available opportunities. “Great opportunities abound in communities such as Dakiti. With the availability of sustainable and reliable energy, these opportunities can be harnessed through productive use of energy infrastructure,” he said. Akko Local Government Chairman, Abubakar Baranbu, was quoted in a statement as saying that “Dakati can now experience what electricity brings in economic prosperity.” According to him, the project is a major development and business opportunities in milling, processing, storage and external trades will now become a reality for industrious people.
Baranbu also expressed appreciation and applauded the Federal Government for improving power supply. The project contractors, Leading Diagonal Engineering Nigeria Limited,  assured that it was done in accordance with international best practices. The Managing Director, Abdallah Kasimu, said: “The installed solar mini-grid power plant has a total capacity of 85kw solar power which consists of 100 solar panels, 96 batteries and over 4.5km distribution network cables. The solar mini-grid project now serves over 1,500 people in this community with constant electricity.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .