Indian Youth Congress activists and supporters take part in a protest against the rise in prices of fuel and Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) in Siliguri on February 26, 2021. (Photo by Diptendu DUTTA / AFP) India’s economy grew 0.4 percent year-on-year in the final quarter of 2020, official data showed Friday, ending its first recession since independence as easing coronavirus restrictions sparked a modest recovery. The country has struggled to claw back lost ground after a stringent, months-long lockdown caused the labour market to collapse and the economy to contract by nearly a quarter between April and June. India entered a “technical recession” last year for the first time since gaining independence in 1947 after registering two successive quarters of contraction. The government now estimates annual GDP will fall eight percent in 2020-21. The latest figures, which fell shy of the expectations of a Bloomberg survey of economists pegging growth at 0.5 percent, will nonetheless bring some cheer to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s beleaguered government. Key sectors such as construction and manufacturing showed an improvement compared to the same quarter last year, Friday’s data revealed. And in January car sales in the bellwether automobile sector increased by more than 11 percent compared to a year earlier, according to industry figures. Restrictions have been relaxed as coronavirus infections have slowed in the country of 1.3 billion in recent weeks, allowing economic activity to resume. But the government still faces the tough task of creating enough jobs for India’s overwhelmingly young population, as millions of migrant workers make their way back to cities, reversing a massive exodus sparked by the lockdown. “We can’t say we are completely out of the woods,” Mumbai-based economist Ashutosh Datar told AFP. “The real test would be what happens next financial year. Today’s number is not a major surprise,” he said. The government has forecast economic growth of 11 percent in the 2021-22 financial year, in line with the International Monetary Fund’s prediction of 11.5 percent. But experts have warned that India, whose tally of 11.1 million infections is second only to the United States, could experience another wave and be hit by new variants of the virus, as has happened in Brazil, Britain and South Africa. The financial and film capital of Mumbai imposed fresh pandemic restrictions on Monday, banning religious gatherings and political rallies after infections spiked to levels last seen in October. New Delhi is hoping that the economy will get a further boost from a massive vaccination drive that kicked off last month but which is already running behind schedule, with 12.2 million shots administered so far to health workers and other frontline staff. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .