Obaseki seeks collaboration to reduce deaths from cancer Edo State has recorded 30 new cases in addition to the 632 active cases and two more deaths from the COVID-19 pandemic, as the state government intensifies efforts to contain the spread of the second wave of the pandemic. Permanent Secretary, Edo State Ministry of Health, Dr. Osamwonyi Irowa, disclosed this while briefing journalists in Benin City yesterday on the impact of COVID-19 in the state. He said 24 of the new cases were reported from the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), while the remaining six were confirmed at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital (ISTH).” He also disclosed that the state has recorded 144 deaths since the outbreak of the pandemic. “Edo State recorded 30 new confirmed cases, two deaths and 13 recoveries from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours.  However, 24 of the cases were reported from the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), while six were confirmed at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital (ISTH),” he said. Irowa revealed that the state also has 632 active cases, who are currently receiving treatment at various treatment and isolation centres, adding that Edo has, since December 1, 2020, when the state started tracking the second wave of the pandemic, collected 10,525 samples and recorded 1,166 confirmed cases, 507 recoveries and 32 deaths. MEANWHILE, Governor Godwin Obaseki has canvassed renewed collaboration among stakeholders to reduce the global impact of cancer, saying the deaths arising from the disease could be reduced with the increased campaign on prevention, detection and treatment. He stated this in commemoration of World Cancer Day, a day set aside by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to draw global attention to the disease, review progress on treatment and consider management options. “Cancer-related deaths can be reduced if government at all levels work with stakeholders to increase awareness on prevention, early detection and treatment to sufferers,” Obaseki said. He noted that by working together as stakeholders to improve cancer control, the government and other relevant actors can achieve global targets to reduce premature mortality from cancer, adding, “There is the need to encourage people to go for diagnosis for early detection of cancer for effective control of the disease.” Speaking on the 2021 theme of the World Cancer Day: Together, All Our Actions Matter, he said: “As we encourage people to go for checks for early detection of cancer, we all need to end stigmatizing against sufferers.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .