Princess Eugenie and husband Jack Brooksbank welcome baby son | Image: Instagram/princesseugenie Princess Eugenie, the granddaughter of Queen Elizabeth II, has given birth to her first child, a son, she shares with her husband Jack Brooksbank. Buckingham Palace announced the birth of the baby who was born at London’s Portland Hospital at 8.55am on Tuesday 9 February, the same hospital where the Duchess of Sussex had her baby, Archie. The 30-year-old royal announced the birth of her son on Instagram, where she shared a black-and-white photo of herself and her husband holding the infant’s hand.   A post shared by Princess Eugenie (@princesseugenie)  The royal baby is the Queen’s ninth great-grandchild. Buckingham palace, in a statement, said that the Queen, The Duke of Edinburgh, The Duke of York, Sarah, Duchess of York, and Mr and Mrs George Brooksbank have all been informed and are “delighted with the news”. “This is Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank’s first child, The Duke of York and Sarah, Duchess of York’s first grandchild, and the ninth great-grandchild for The Queen and The Duke of Edinburgh. Her Royal Highness and her child are both doing well,” the statement continued. Princess Eugenie and husband Jack Brooksbank | Image: Instagram/princesseugenie The baby is 11th in line to the throne, and his birth means the Queen and Philip’s youngest son the Earl of Wessex, who was third in line when he was born in 1964, has moved down to 12th place in the line of succession. The couple, who married in October 2018 at St George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle, announced they were expecting their first child on 25 September with an Instagram post. Sharing a photo of the couple’s hands holding a pair of infant-sized slippers, Princess Eugenie wrote: “Jack and I are so excited for early 2021….” Princess Eugenie is the younger daughter of Prince Andrew, Duke of York, and Sarah, Duchess of York, making them grandparents for the first time. She is ninth in the line of succession to the British throne, after her elder sister, Princess Beatrice of York.