 PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus PHOTO: Twitter  It explained that having seen the crisis generated by the revalidation of its membership, the APC desired to pull down the PDP.
National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, told journalists in Abuja yesterday that every thing about the crisis was orchestrated from outside the party. His words: “There is no crisis in the PDP.  It is all the plot of external forces to cause crisis or cry wolf when there is no crisis. “Our antagonists, who wanted the party to disintegrate since we lost the two presidential elections in 2015 and 2019, are worried about how we managed to pull resources together to kept the party afloat. But by the grace of God, we shall surmount and save the country from APC’s inglorious administration.” Other PDP leaders admitted that there were issues within the party but the issues had been resolved.
Citing the plot to cause crisis in the PDP, a member of the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT), disclosed that APC orchestrated a crisis in the party in 2018 after the presidential campaign in Port Harcourt that misled one of its former NWC member to work against its leadership. “The APC was jittery over the successful conduct of the Port Harcourt convention where they plotted to snatch our Deputy National Chairman for the Northeast, Alhaji Babayo Gamawa.  It did that because they thought that he could cause crisis in PDP,” he stated. He also explained that the APC was sharing money to members of the party in the Southwest to join its fold to cause crisis.
He cited the case of former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, who is a vocal member of the PDP, adding that the APC wanted him to defect but he rejected the plot. On his part, former governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose said: “Anyone who leaves the PDP for APC was driven by covetousness. “I am now over 60 years old. What do I want again? I was governor at 42 and the PDP offered me all the opportunities anybody could offer. “I won’t join APC. Some people choose not to be honourable, but not me,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .