Today, Canon Europe (www.Canon-europe.com) announces the latest addition to its best-selling imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX portfolio, the C5800 Series – a true hub for digital transformation in effortlessly bridging physical and digital workflows to empower hybrid workforces. Following the recent launch of the imagePRESS C170 Series*, which provides an alternative solution for businesses looking to push their creative limits, both devices are designed with productivity at their core.  With accelerating societal changes and the emergence of remote and decentralised working, this fundamental shift in behaviour has impacted the role of the office and ultimately what is needed from office technology. To support business continuity, drive digital transformation and facilitate unrivalled user experience between the office and remote working locations – thanks to the seamless integration of uniFLOW Online – the imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX C5800 Series has been developed to support businesses thrive in today’s hybrid working reality.  Empowering productivity The imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX C5800 Series excels in streamlining document workflows by combining super-fast colour print speeds of up to 70 ppm and enhanced connectivity, with the latest scan technology, making it ideal for medium to large enterprises that require high volume, productive output. Designed to enable consistently secure, productive and effective working as part of technology ecosystem that is location-agnostic, the imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX C5800 Series truly empowers productivity. This best-in-class device combines the reliability and durability of its predecessors in one flagship model through offering enhanced serviceability with long life part and easier replacement capabilities.  For maximum uptime and drive efficiency, this device features quick sleep recovery, powering on in just six seconds and quick starting in four. Anti-streak, multi-feed detection and blank page removal, further reduces processing time and improves the scan performance. To save valuable time getting documents ready for use, the series delivers a broad range of embedded finishing options. Supporting digital transformation Digitisation is crucial to making sure teams can connect and collaborate, especially in today’s hybrid working reality. The imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX C5800 Series is the latest in the portfolio which is pivotal to customers embarking on their digital transformation journey. As a hub where print transforms into digital, it allows businesses to connect employees with workplace apps and plug documents straight into their workflows through one single platform. With in-built connectivity – integrating with cloud-storage destinations like Dropbox and OneDrive – documents can be accessed, edited and shared by colleagues working anywhere. uniFLOW Online, Canon’s cloud-based software [1] provides a single platform to connect all working locations, through which companies can centrally manage their fleet, no matter where devices are located. It offers simple cost tracking, secure scanning, and robust device security. Users with the uniFLOW Online upgrade have advanced functionalities such as Filing Assist, allowing information to be extracted from paper documents and inputted directly and accurately into workflow software. “The last 12 months have seen immense shifts in working patterns, as well as business and technology requirements,” says Ben Gossage, Sales and Marketing Director, Canon Central and North Africa. “Hybrid ways of working, which were already present, have developed and accelerated during this time. With that in mind, we have continued to evolve our technology and broaden our portfolio to enable us to support our customer’s document workflow requirements wherever they are. From connecting distributed workforces and enabling digital transformation with the imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX C5800 series, to offering in-house professional printing and finishing provided with the recent imagePRESS C170 Series launch, we are supporting the changing needs of our customers. “Now, more than ever, businesses need their employees to be able to digitise documents quickly and efficiently, and be able to access them from anywhere, at any time. With today’s news, we’re confident that we’re helping our customers maintain business continuity and adapt to the demands of today’s hybrid working.” For more information, please visit https://bit.ly/3cU1j0x. [1] Please contact local Canon representative regarding compatibility with selected Canon devices. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Notes to Editors *About imagePRESS C170 Series 
Launched on 1st February 2021, the imagePRESS C170 Series allows businesses to explore creative printing in-house. Designed to deliver high-resolution, personalised, vividly coloured prints, it offers an alternative solution for businesses looking to push their creative limits.  Combining office functionality and connectivity, with professional output, the imagePRESS C170 Series enables customers to broaden their print capabilities, capitalising on their investment. Key Features – imageRUNNER ADVANCE DX C5800 Series Key Features – imagePRESS C170 series Media Contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
e. Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Rania ElRafie
e. Rania.ElRafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: www.Canon-CNA.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .