5 Natural Ways To Improve Your Sex Drive Image Thinkstock Any number of things, some physical and some psychological can cause low libido in both men and women. Sometimes it is both. Physical issues that can cause low libido include low testosterone, prescription medicines, too little or too much exercise, and alcohol and drug use. In women, this is known as hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD). Psychological issues can include depression, stress, and problems in your relationship. Below are some ways to boost your libido according to Healthline: Try eating chocolate
Throughout history, chocolate has been a symbol of desire, not just because of its delicious taste but also because of its power to improve sexual pleasure. Chocolate promotes the release of the chemicals phenethylamine and serotonin into your body. This can produce some aphrodisiac and mood-lifting effects. Take your daily herbs
Next time you decide to sit down for a romantic dinner, add a little basil or garlic to your dish. The smell of basil stimulates the senses. Garlic contains high levels of allicin, which increases blood flow. These effects may help men with erectile dysfunction (ED). Ginkgo biloba is another herb found to treat antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction, according to research. It’s an extract derived from the leaf of the Chinese ginkgo tree. Boost your self-confidence
The way you feel about your body affects the way you feel about sex. An unhealthy diet and lack of exercise may cause you to have a poor self-image. These things can discourage you from having and enjoying sex. You can boost your self-esteem and your sex drive by shifting the focus from your flaws to your attributes. You can also focus on the pleasure experienced during sex. Take time to meditate and relieve stress
No matter how healthy you are, being stressed out can affect your sex drive. Women are particularly susceptible to the effects stress can have on one’s sex life, according to research. Men, on the other hand, may use sex to relieve stress. Sometimes differences in the approach to sex may cause conflict. To relieve stress, consider meditation. Get plenty of sleep
Those with a hectic lifestyle don’t always have the time to get the right amount of sleep. Being busy also makes it difficult to make time for sex. People who balance work with caring for aging parents or young children are often left exhausted, which can lead to a reduced sex drive. Boost your energy and sex drive by taking naps when you can and eating a healthy diet high in protein and complex carbohydrates. If natural methods are not helping, consider speaking to a doctor that can help you through the journey of experiencing the best sex you deserve.