 L-R Femi Fani-Kayode, chairman of the APC caretaker committee, Malam Mai Mala Buni and Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. PHOTO:TWITTER/ Yahaya Bello MEDIA CENTRE  Fani-Kayode met separately, then together,  with Governors Yahaya Bello of Kogi State and Malam Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State who chairs the caretaker committee of the APC on registration and revalidation of party members at a Guest House in Wuse, Abuja. Many believe the meeting could signal part of the process for the former minister, a staunch critic of President Muhammadu Buhari to return to the ruling party. Dr Salihu Lukman, the director general of the APC’s governors’ forum said the return of Fani-Kayode to the party was undesirable. “For our leaders to associate themselves with Mr. Fani-Kayode, is simply rewarding scandalous behaviour,” Lukman said in a statement on Tuesday. “Mr. Fani-Kayode has fabricated stories, distorted, insulted and damaged information about our party and our leaders.” But Fani-Kayode in a Twitter thread said the meeting was beyond politics and “it amazes me that some people should feel that it is wrong for me to sit with other leaders in the country to discuss issues which touch and concern the national cohesion, future and stability of our country. “This is a time in which we must set all our differences aside, build bridges and come together as one lest our country drifts into fratricidal butchery and civil war.” He said it is right proper for them to talk and to attempt to “join hands across political, religious and regional lines to save Nigeria.” The former minister said he “will never compromise or jettison my core fundamental principles for any reason and I stand firmly on my honestly held opinion that we need to enthrone equity, justice & fairness in this country for it to survive. “I also believe in restructuring the country and in a vigorous and effective fight against terrorism.” He said the fact that he is in talks with leaders from a cross section of political parties, including the ruling party. Fani-Kayode stated that his relation with leaders of the ruling party does not mean that he will ever change his views on insecurity and calls for the country to be restructured. He said the next few months will be critical in terms of whether or not the country will survive as one but did not give any context to the statement. “I believe that if we want it to do so dialogue, building bridges and collaboration, even with those that you may disagree
with on some issues, is vital and inevitable,” Fani-Kayode said. “That was the purpose of our meeting. “Despite our differences, as leaders and statesmen, we must all sheath our swords and ensure that we never go down that path,” Fani-Kayode said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .