 [files] Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola. Photo: FMWHNIG  He stated this yesterday while inaugurating an internal road at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Ituku-Ozalla, Enugu State. Represented at the event by the Federal Controller of Works in Enugu, Mr. Olufemi Oyekanmi, the minister said the project was one of the 43 road interventions being undertaken by the Federal Government in tertiary institutions across the country. He said that 29 of such projects had been completed and 17 handed over to the benefitting institutions in 2020. Stressing that the Federal Government had in 2020 handed over a 2.5km internal road at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Fashola stated that efforts were geared towards addressing infrastructural gaps in the country. “Today, we hand over this project in UNTH as a critical intervention to support education. The point must be made that though this is a civil project, it is an investment in education. A gradual process of repairs, renewal and construction on major highways is steadily bridging the gap of our infrastructure needs, and it has reached the schools. “It is not debatable that the quality of education will be impacted by the quality of infrastructure and the learning environment. Those who doubt it should simply listen to feedback from students in the schools where this type of intervention has taken place,” Fashola said. The Chief Medical Director, UNTH, Dr. Obinna Onodugo, said that the construction of the road was a big relief to the institution. Onodugo said that until now, the road was deplorable and posed a great challenge for patients and others. Also, the Deputy Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, UNTH, Dr. Tessy Nwagha, said the road, which led to the Oncology Unit of the hospital, had been a nightmare. Nwagha said the institution needed more such interventions to improve the quality of its health services.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .