We are pleased to announce that as from 1 January 2021, ENGIE (www.ENGIE.com) has merged its Africa portfolio with the MESCAT Business Unit under the leadership of Sébastien Arbola, Chief Executive Officer of ENGIE MESCATA (Middle East, South and Central Asia, Turkey and Africa). Sébastien Arbola has also been appointed Executive Vice President in charge of Thermal Generation and Energy Supply activities at ENGIE Group level, effective 1 February 2021. The enlarged Business Unit MESCATA, with headquarters in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and regional offices throughout the region, will draw on ENGIE’s long term presence and experience in the region to keep accelerating the transition towards carbon neutral economies.  With this new organization, ENGIE continues to simplify and streamline operations, and increase selectivity in terms of activities and geographical presence as announced when the 2019 results were published. Joining MESCAT and Africa is seen as being mutually beneficial, combining scale and expertise with deep market knowledge. Sébastien Arbola, CEO of ENGIE MESCATA “Enlarging our geographical scope will allow us to have a much greater impact on the markets where we operate and to better serve our clients as we accompany them in their path towards carbon neutrality. Our strategic focus will be on markets that are currently or potentially large, have attractive growth profiles and a transparent and stable regulatory framework. We will maintain a strong local presence to build up-front relationships with our customers and respond to their needs”. In line with ENGIE Group’s strategic orientations, ENGIE MESCATA’s activities will revolve around four major priorities: In Africa, the power generation activity will focus on the development of utility-scale generation in 4 countries: Egypt, Morocco, Senegal and South Africa. To leverage scale and resources, materialize cross-fertilization and optimize partnerships as well as financing around the energy access activities, Mobisol, Fenix and Power Corner have been gathered under a single entity, ENGIE Energy Access, and will report directly into ENGIE’s Corporate Thermal and Energy Supply division, under the supervision of Sebastien Arbola. In the Middle East and South & Central Asia, ENGIE has participated for over three decades to the development of power and water projects. The company will remain committed to providing electricity and water to local populations through sustainable means, like combined cycle gas turbine plants (CCGT) and reverse osmosis. In the Gulf countries, ENGIE will also focus on accompanying the successful growth of Tabreed, a UAE-based word leader in district cooling 40% owned by the Group since 2017. As a leading energy actor, ENGIE is committed to supporting these countries’ visions and to accelerate the transition towards a carbon-neutral economy with many sustainable ways to power cities and territories. ENGIE MESCATA’s executive committee will be formed by: Distributed by APO Group on behalf of ENGIE. Press Contact:
Email: engiepress.mescat@engie.com About ENGIE MESCATA:
ENGIE (www.ENGIE.com) has a presence of almost 30 years in the Middle East, South & Central Asia and Turkey region. It is the regional leading independent power & water producer with a gross capacity of 30 GW of power and 5.5 million m3/day of water production, serving over 40 million people daily with power and 10 million with potable water from desalination. In Africa, where it has been present for over 50 years, the Group has 3.15 GW of power generation capacity in operation or construction. It is a leader in the decentralized energy market, providing clean energy to more than five million people through domestic solar installations and local microgrids. ENGIE’s renewable portfolio exceeds 2,300 MW of power in India and Africa. In the Middle East, the Group is a regional leader in district cooling through Tabreed, in which it has a 40% stake, and which currently delivers over 1.4 million tons of cooling across 86 plants in the GCC. ENGIE is also a leading provider of Customer Solutions in the Gulf region and Morocco. About ENGIE:
Our group is a global reference in low-carbon energy and services. Our ambition is to become the world leader in the energy transition of our customers, businesses and local authorities. We rely on our key businesses (renewable energy, gas, services) to offer competitive turnkey solutions “as a service”. With our 160,000 employees, our customers, partners, and stakeholders, we are a community of Imaginative Builders, committed every day to more harmonious progress. The turnover in 2019: 60.1 billion Euros. The Group is listed on the Paris and Brussels stock exchanges (ENGI) and is represented in the main financial indices (CAC 40, DJ Euro Stoxx 50, Euronext 100, FTSE Eurotop 100, MSCI Europe) and non-financial indices (DJSI World, DJSI Europe, and Euronext Vigeo Eiris – World 120, Eurozone 120, Europe 120, France 20, CAC 40 Governance). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .