Located at 2447 Avenue de la Chance in the new administrative district (GTA Lome II) in the North of Lome, the Regus (www.Regus.com) centre will open soon as a franchise in partnership with Confortis International Group. It will offer a wide range of ready-to-use workspaces ranging from private offices to coworking, meeting rooms and business lounges.  REGUS, the flagship brand of the IWG Holding (International Workplace Group) created 30 years ago in Belgium, is the world’s largest provider of flexible workspaces with 3,500 locations in more than 120 countries and a community of more than 2.5 million customers and partners around the world. With around 30 locations in Africa, REGUS is especially present in Ivory Coast, Ghana, Nigeria, Senegal, Guinea, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and South Africa. The « Regus Avenue de la Chance » business centre is ideally located to meet the needs of companies of all sizes, from start-ups to global groups, with a focus on office flexibility, quality of space and equipment. “We are delighted to open in Togo and are committed to providing our customers with the highest quality of service,” says Paolo Dias, CEO of REGUS Africa. Flexible workspace currently represents a relatively small proportion of office space in general (less than 5%). JLL has predicted a rapid increase that is expected to reach 30% by 2030, but this figure is expected to increase further as a result of the pandemic. The Regus Centre is strategically located in the new business district of GTA Lome II, opposite the LONATO headquarter, close to embassies and to the headquarters of major companies and institutions, three minutes from the new Presidential Palace, ten minutes from Lome airport and fifteen minutes from Lome seaport. “In the context of the Togolese Government's National Development Plan (NDP), REGUS will offer a valuable service to Togolese companies and international investors wishing to set up in Togo. Lome is a triple hub in the sub-region: seaport hub, aerial hub and financial hub. This world-class tool that is REGUS is fundamental for the business ecosystem”, says Architect Dontou DEROU, CEO of the CONFORTIS INTERNATIONAL Group. The Centre will open in the second quarter of 2021. It will offer 160 workstations as well as six (06) meeting and conference rooms, spread over 1,000 sqm, in a ten (10) floors modern designed building of 3,000 sqm, including a gym and spa , restaurants, premium suites, a sky bar and a secure car park. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Regus. Media Contact:
Sylvia DAGOH
regus.lome@gmail.com
(00228) 90 53 74 74 About Regus (IWG Group):
Regus (www.Regus.com) is the world’s largest provider of flexible workspaces. We have built an unrivalled network of office, coworking and meeting space that companies can use around the world. It is an infrastructure that supports all business opportunities – a global infrastructure built for businesses. Our network of workspaces allows companies to operate anywhere, with no set-up costs or capital investment. It offers our customers immediate cost benefits and the ability to fully outsource their real estate portfolio. To find out more about REGUS Avenue de la Chance, visit www.Regus.com. About the CONFORTIS International Group:
CONFORTIS International (www.Confortis.org) is an African HHhJhhHholding, global player of the architecture and development sectors. Taking advantage of its expertise as a global operator, the Holding develops, finances, builds and manages mixed-use residential, office and integrated services complexes. Since fifteen (15) years, with over one million (1,000,000) square meters built and under development across Africa, CONFORTIS Group has been committed to the environmental, social and societal performance of its projects, with the ambition to create long-term value for its customers, employees and partners. To find out more about CONFORTIS Group, visit www.Confortis.org. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .