 Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; (left), Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi; National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; wife of the deceased, Alhaja Abimbola Jakande; wife of the Lagos Deputy Governor,  Oluremi Hamzat and former Governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba, during the 8-day Fidau prayer for the first civilian Governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, at Bishop Street, Ilupeju … yesterday  National leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Ahmed Tinubu, yesterday, said the former governor of Lagos State, late Lateef Jakande was very honest and progressive to the core, committed to serving the people and was evident in all the programmes and projects he executed. Speaking at the 8-days Fidau prayer held at Jakande’s residence in Ilupeju, Tinubu added that nobody could beat the record of service of Jakande, as an attempt would only end in a try. On his part, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-olu has revealed that as part of activities to honour Jakande, a special day of tributes would be held by the state government. He added that the day would be another opportunity to celebrate Jakande for all he did for the state. National Missioner, Ansar ud Deen Society of Nigeria, Sheikh Abdulrahaman Ahmad, in his sermon, said the late Jakande was a library in public leadership whose entire life was a testimony of service. He therefore implored present leaders to work for the people and create legacy for which they would be remembered after leaving office. Mudir of Markaz Islamic Institute in Agege, Sheikh Habibulah Adam Al-Ilory, said the late Jakande came to the world with the destiny of impact. Rev. Daniel Adeeko of Christ Apostolic Mission Church led a Christian prayer for the deceased. First son of the late former Governor, Deji Jakande, who spoke on behalf of the family, hailed Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu and residents of Lagos for the support to the family since the death of their departed patriarch. Dignitaries at the event included Kayode Fayemi, Segun Osoba, Ahmad Sani Yerima, Obafemi Hamzat, and Sheikh Oluwatoyin Abou-Nolla. Others were all Executive Council members of the State, Mudashiru Obasa, Musiliu Smith, Ganiyu Solomon and White Cap chiefs representing the Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu, among others. Immediately after the prayers, Sanwo-Olu was at Alimosho to commission the construction and remodeling of Abesan Youth Centre and a network of four roads with two bridges at Agbado Oke-odo Local Council Development Area. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .