Covid-19 has accelerated education’s digital transformation, highlighting Africa’s digital divide – and exposing the vital need for all-inclusive digital literacy, say expert panelists at the inaugural session of Canon’s (www.Canon-CNA.com) groundbreaking thought leadership series.  As a result of the pandemic, online learning has provided a critical lifeline to learners affected by the worldwide closure of schools. This has, in turn, highlighted numerous social inequalities – not least the digital divide faced by the millions of students who lacked access to tools or resources and were unable to engage in remote learning. Yet Africa can share many success stories – and offer solutions for the way forward. Africa Frontiers of innovation, the monthly interactive thought leadership series, delves into topical issues, and advances innovative strategies and solutions for a world on the road to post-pandemic recovery. Headlined ‘Developing digital skills and literacy for students’ this first session saw moderator Victoria Rubadiri, an award-winning Kenyan journalist, posing some tough questions – ­pre-set, and from the audience – that delved deep into digitalisation and the future of education on the continent, including proposed practical interventions and actionable insights on the way forward. Esteemed panelists Julianna Lindsey – UNICEF representative in Rwanda – and Joseph Muteti Wambua, Joseph has a accountSenior Curriculum Development Officer at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development, related their countries’ successes, detailing how both Kenya and Rwanda responded swiftly to this global emergency, using broadcasting channels to produce educational programs for learners on radio and TV, as well as placing their curriculums online to ensure continued learning. Special needs learners were also catered to, with Braille translations distributed to blind students, and sign language interpretations included in all visual broadcasts. “In Rwanda about 80% of children were able to access learning online,” notes Lindsey, adding that the greatest success was in enabling access to devices with the help of the Ministry of Education and community NGOs. Reimagining Education: unlocking future potential These interventions, however successful, also highlighted another barrier to learning, beyond a lack of access to devices – that of digital literacy. As Lindsey points out: “We realised that, even where there are devices, not all children, parents or teachers may have full awareness of how to access a web page, for instance. So, we learnt through this that its quite important to work on that digital literacy – for parents, teachers and learners/students.” Various organisations throughout Africa, have proactive programs in place to bridge the digital gap. In February 2020, the African Union launched a Digital Transformation Strategy, aimed at connecting the continent. UNICEF, too, has long been working on the Reimagine Education program, that aims to connect every school in the world, ensure connectivity and engagement and provide relevant, regional teaching and learning content. Wambua, who has been developing e-learning curriculums for more than a decade, predicts that blended learning will be the way forward across the globe. “Blending solves a lot of problems for us – it makes people aware of the benefits of technology in the learning process, and helps us develop interactive learning content that can be universally accessed by every learner, regardless of status: whether autistic, hearing or sight impaired. Governments should procure the necessary technologies, and parents, too, should provide the tools and resources for learners.” “The African Frontiers of Innovation seminar not only highlighted various successful interventions and strategies, it also outlined a need for all stakeholders to embrace the change that Covid-19 has ushered in its wake – and to strategize accordingly for future success.” commented Mai Youssef, Corporate Communications and Marketing Services Director – Canon Middle East and Canon Central and North Africa. Don’t miss the second episode in the series, on Wednesday, February 24, when an equally distinguished and diverse panel takes a deep dive into innovations and developments in the music industry on the continent, as well as the impact of digitisation on the industry – and the challenges for African musicians, producers and industry stakeholders. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media Contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
e. Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Rania El Rafie
e. Rania.elrafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: www.Canon-CNA.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .