 Shoes of a late Airforce officer are seen on a coffin wrapped with nation green and white flag during the funeral ceremony for the seven military personel, who died in the crash of their military aircraft, at the National Military Cemetery in Abuja, on February 25, 2021. – Thr military aircraft crashed on February 21, 2021 near Nigeria’s capital Abuja. The plane was scheduled to conduct a surveillance mission in connection with an operation to rescue dozens of people abducted from a school in nearby Niger State. (Photo by KOLA SULAIMON / AFP)  The officers were buried in National Military Cemetery, Karonmajigi, Airport Road, Abuja. The Chief of Air Staff (CAS), AVM Oladayo Amao, said that the officers had paid the supreme price in the service to the nation. “I stand here today bearing my personal grief as well as the entire NAF and the country as we lay to rest the remains of our fallen colleagues while in active duty to the service of their fatherland. “I must confess that even at this moment, NAF is still in palpable shock and grieving very deeply upon this loss of our gallant and courageous heroes,” he said. Amao said that it was in connection with the concerted efforts to secure the release of the staff and students abducted from the Government Science College Kagara, Niger that the officer died. He advised that the death of the officers and airmen ought to spur the rest of Nigerians to relentlessly expose and fight crimes. “We must throw everything that we have into this fight to ensure that our departed colleagues did not die in vain. “Their death is a huge loss to NAF family and indeed the entire nation. “They will be greatly missed but fondly remembered for their invaluable services to the nation and humanity,” he said. The CAS also assured the families of the late officers that the service is with them at this time, as well as others both within and outside the country. Earlier, the Director, NAF Chaplaincy Protestants, Group Capt. Dogo Gani, prayed that the remains of the fallen heroes continue to rest in peace. Gani urged all the NAF personnel as well as the civilian staff of the service to make it a point of duty to pray for the souls of the fallen heroes to rest in the bosom hands of the Almighty God.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .