Paris Hilton and Reum Carter | Image: Paris Hilton Paris Hilton has become engaged to her venture capitalist boyfriend Carter Reum after more than a year of dating. The billionaire heiress and socialite said the big “yes” to Carter, 40, on Saturday, February 13, 2021. Hilton shared the news of the engagement yesterday February, 17 which is also her 40th birthday. “When you find your soulmate, you don’t just know it. You feel it.  My love & I have been together since our first date, and for my birthday, he arranged a special trip to tropical paradise.  As we walked to dinner along the beach, Carter led us to a cabana adorned with flowers and dropped to one knee.  I said yes, yes to forever  There’s no one I’d rather spend forever with. ,” she wrote on her Instagram page.   A post shared by Paris Hilton (@parishilton)  “My fairytale dream came true! I love my future husband so much! Best birthday surprise ever!!  So excited to be your wife!,” Hilton wrote in a second Instagram post. Reum popped the question — with a ring designed by Jean Dousset, the great-grandson of Louis Cartier — while the couple was celebrating Hilton’s birthday on a private island. For the milestone moment, Hilton donned a Retrofete dress and a Loschy crown while Reum sported an all-white suit. Paris Hilton and Carter Reum | CREDIT: COURTESY PARIS HILTON Hilton told People: “This past year with COVID has accelerated so many things. As someone who traveled constantly, I had a chance to stay home and reevaluate what was important to me. My relationship and the time I spent with Carter was a gift. I’m excited for our next chapter.” Reum also told the publication: “I have gotten the unique opportunity to get to know the real Paris on a daily basis just the two of us during these past 15 months and I couldn’t be more excited and lucky to have her as my future wife and partner. She shines with her kindness, work ethic, authenticity and her voice in making the world a better place and she will do the same as a future mother and wife.” The engagement comes a little more than two years after Hilton ended an engagement with her ex-fiance Chris Zylka.