Abdulrasheed Bawa. Photo: CORRUPTIONREPORTER Nigeria Senate on Wednesday confirmed the appointment of Abdulrasheed Bawa as the substantive chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Senate president Ahmad Lawan during the plenary restated President Muhammadu Buhari’s nomination of Bawa as EFCC chairman last week. The Presidency said Bawa’s nomination was in accordance with Section 2 (3) of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Act 2003. Bawa was in the company of his family members, the Senior Special Assistant to President Buhari on National Assembly Matters, Senator Jide Omoworare, the Speaker and Members of the Kebbi State House of Assembly at the National Assembly. The EFCC chairman-designate before his confirmation introduced himself and read his biodata to the Senate. Bawa, a 40-year-old  EFCC investigator, said he has vast experience in the investigation and prosecution of advance fee fraud cases, official corruption, bank fraud, money laundering, and other economic crimes. He holds a B.Sc degree in economics, and masters degree in international affairs and diplomacy. With his confirmation, Bawa replaces the suspended former acting EFCC chairman Ibrahim Magu who is undergoing trial on alleged diversion of recovered government’s assets since July 2020. Bawa said he hopes to make the EFCC a better place when he leaves. The EFCC chairman said he “intend to work with them closely by sharing information in order to attain our mutual and independent objective. “We need to repatriate all our stolen assets for the benefit and betterment of all Nigerians. “It is a dream of every patriotic Nigerian to see Nigeria growing to a greater height and I hope and pray that if confirmed, I will live to contribute my quota in seeing that this country is taken to a greater height. “I am going to give the young people a very good representation in the governance of this country so that more young people will be given more responsibility in this country.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .