 The suspects  Following the cult clash in the area and other parts of the state, the state’s police boss, CP Hakeem Odumosu, renewed his commitment to suppress acts of lawlessness across the state. The police boss said this yesterday while deliberating on security issues with the area commanders and the Police Mobile Force (PMF) commanders in the state. The meeting revolved round the general security and public safety of Lagos State as the command had recorded some acts of lawlessness in some areas of the state. He warned the motorcycle operators, commercial drivers and Lagosians in general to respect the laws of the state and desist from attacking police personnel and other security operatives who are enforcing the Lagos State Traffic Regulations and COVID-19 safety protocols. He emphasised that the command would continue to discharge its duties without fair or favour. While reacting to the ongoing cult-related fracas at Alakuko, Dalemo and Kola areas of the state, the police boss confirmed the arrest of 19 suspected cultists during the crises. Items allegedly recovered from them included dangerous weapons, assorted charms and weeds suspected to be cannabis. The commissioner of police revealed that the intelligence at the command’s disposal revealed that the hoodlums came from Otta axis of Ogun State to lay siege on the affected border communities on cult-related crises and the command had been repelling them. The command had deployed additional police personnel, including Police Mobile Force, to curtail the hoodlums and restore normalcy to the affected communities. He also directed that the arrested suspects be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba, for further investigation. Odumosu, however, called on the community leaders in the areas to support the police in combating crimes and getting rid of the hoodlums and their antics in their respective areas of the state. He assured that the command would work with the Ogun State Police Command to decimate activities of the hoodlums and cultists in the border areas and towns across the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .