  Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, Pro-Chancellor of University of Calabar (UNICAL), Dr. Nkechi Nwaogu and Chancellor of Gregory University, Uturu, Abia State, Prof. Gregory Ibe, yesterday, lauded the appointment of Nigeria’s former Finance and Foreign Affairs Minister, Dr. Ngozi Okonji-Iweala, as the next Director-General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Ikpeazu described her emergence as a historic one with a deep sense of pride to Abia, which is her state by marriage, adding that she is a history maker, pace-setter and powerful pathfinder for the womenfolk on the global scene. Also, Nwaogu in her congratulatory message to the in-coming WTO DG, expressed confidence that “the exponential financial technocrat” is going to achieve the desired results,” praying God to continue to guide and protect her as she assumes office at the WTO. According to Ibe: “Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala embodies the true essence of excellence. There is no iota of doubt that her leadership at the helm of affairs of the WTO for the next four years would yield outstanding results. “Under your steady hand and distinguished leadership, global trade activities are bound to see sustained growth. My earnest prayer remains that all your giant strides and determined efforts to reposition global trade and the World Trade Organisation will continue to yield great results for the global community, our continent of Africa, our country Nigeria and for your people of Abia State.” MEANWHILE, the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers has urged Okonjo-Iweala to use her good offices as the Director-General of the WTO to prevail on leaders of the developing world, particularly Africa, to maximise the potentials in the real estate for the development of their economies. In a statement issued on behalf of the leading professional body in the Real Estate Sector by its President, Emmanuel Okas-Wike, the institution commended the General Council of the WTO for confirming the candidature of Okonjo-Iweala, describing her as a tested and trusted financial expert with several years of experience in the financial sector at the national and international levels. ALSO, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has said that the appointment of Okonjo-Iweala is a giant stride for all women all over the world, being the first time a woman is appointed into the position. In a congratulatory massage yesterday, CAN President, Rev. (Dr) Samson Ayokunle, described Okonjo-Iweala’s appointment as a pride to the black race and a greater pride to Nigeria, which she had served so well before with utmost integrity. He said: “Your appointment has demonstrated that with God, all things are possible. It is much more a giant stride and rare achievement for African women in particular. The initial snare to your appointment was broken by Him who rules in the affairs of men. Power and promotion belong to God. Yours is a lesson for us all to be our best and that at the fullness of time, no opposition can stand our elevation.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .