The Rivers State commissioner of police, Eboka Friday, has dissolved the Eagle Crack Squad of the command over unprofessional conduct. Rivers State Police Command spokesman Nnamdi Omoni said the decision was taken after a management meeting. Omoni noted that the dissolution followed complaints of unprofessional conduct exhibited by the personnel of the unit. The Guardian gathered that some officials of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad, (SARS)  infiltrated the Eagle Crack unit which led to the upsurge in extortion and human rights abuses by the E-crack team in the State. Findings show that the E-crack unit took possession of the disbanded SARS building located at Rupokwu in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the State. However, the arrangement gave easy access for the ex-SARS officers to join the Eagle Crack unit and continued with their normal activities. There have been several reports of harassment, extortions, intimidation, and brutality of innocent citizens including The Guardian staff by the unit since September 2020. The police spokesman said the  dissolution is with immediate effect and directed all personnel attached to the unit are to report to the headquarters for redeployment. He said the police had promised to address all cases of infractions by the police with a stern warning to deal with erring officers and hold DPOs/HODs. “The public is hereby enjoined to rekindle their trust in the Police, as the Command is committed to giving them improved Policing services that will stand the test of time,” Omoni said. A group, Centre for Basic Rights Protection and Accountability Campaign, had called for an immediate investigation into a report that members of the disbanded SARS have infiltrated  E’Crack unit of the state police command, leading to an increase in alleged human rights abuse. The group in a statement by its coordinator, Prince Wiro, said the call for investigation had become necessary to save the residents. Meanwhile, residents have expressed delight over swift action by the Rivers State Police Commissioner, stating that the move would serve as a deterrent to other police tactical units.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .