Olusola Owonikoko, Aisha Yesufu and eight others have been awarded for devoting time and energy to improve the lives of others by becoming beacons of light within their communities. The 10 awardees were recognized for demonstrating Dr. King’s spirit and legacy through their dedication and contributions in Africa during the maiden edition of the virtual African Youth Luther King Heroes Summit held on Friday, January 29 2020. The awardees are Olusola Owonikoko, Raquel Kasham Daniel, Charles O’Tudor, Owolabi Williams, Mobolaji Ogunlende, Omotola Fawunmi, Aisha Yesufu, Oludare Akinlaja, Wale Ajani, and  Adebunmi Akinbo. Speaking at the Summit; Dr. Melida H. Barrow, Founder of the 6th Region Global Chamber of Commerce urged the youth to collaborate and synergise for economic prosperity of the continent. Prof. Babs Onabanjo, CEO/President of the AD King Foundation, also called on policy makers across Africa to prioritise the issues affecting the youths and women across the continent. Representative of the wife of the late African-American activist, Naomi Ruth Barber King, noted that the time has come for young people to take their place in leadership across every sector in order to hasten the development of the continent. Owonikoko, the Executive Director of Stanforte Edge and Project Enable Africa, advocated personal development among youth and the need for a reform in Africa’s educational curriculum if the continent will harness her demographic dividends. Aisha Yesufu, a right activist and #BringBackOurGirls campaigner, also urged young people to continue to mount pressure on political leadership across Africa to reset the continent on the path of development. Other speakers at the summit were Debo Adedayo (Mr. Macaroni), Dr. Joseph Baesley, Mobolaji Ogunlende, Owolabi Williams, Omotola Fawunmi, and Charles O’Tudor. Stephen Oguntoyinbo, Executive Director of Alarinka Communication appreciated the contribution of the speakers to the success of the summit and congratulated the awardees for their contribution to nation building. This event is a build up to the A.D King Foundation’s Gala Night scheduled to hold at the end of the year in Atlanta, USA where 50 awardees across Africa will be honored and recognised for their work in the development of the continent.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .