Randy Waldrum African champions set to battle CSKA Moscow
Randy Waldrum yesterday officially became Super Falcons head coach after signing his contract with the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) at the team’s Emir Hotels camp in Antalya, Turkey. The Super Falcons are currently in Turkey where they are scheduled to feature in the Turkish Women’s Cup. Speaking at the brief signing ceremony, NFF President, Amaju Melvin Pinnick, expressed the belief that 64-year-old Waldrum will propel the Super Falcons to a higher level in women football’s global ranking. Pinnick said: “We believe that Mr, Waldrum is the right man to take the Super Falcons from where the team currently is to that higher level that we want it to be. We have been champions of Africa on nine occasions and it is time that we move up to competing stoutly for honours at global level.” NFF General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi signed on behalf of the NFF, with NFF Executive Member Suleiman Yahaya-Kwande, Chairman of the Women’s Football Committee, Ayo Hulayat Omidiran and Technical Director, Mr Augustine Eguavoen also present. The Turkish Women’s Cup Tournament, also known as the Alanya Gold City Cup, is Waldrum’s first run-out with the reigning African champions. Pinnick revealed that the new coach would be officially unveiled in Nigeria on a later date. Speaking after the ceremony, Coach Waldrum expressed satisfaction with the quality of players in the Super Falcons’ camp ahead of the African champions’ Turkish Women’s Cup opener against CSKA Moscow’s ladies squad at the Emir Sports Complex, Antalya today. He said, “I am really impressed with the group as a whole; I am happy to see players show so much talent. The opportunity to see a lot of players is really important to me especially this year that is not a qualification year. “I want to expand the net to look at the other foreign-based and local players.” The Super Falcons will take on CSKA Moscow at the Emir Sports Complex in Antalya today at Uzbekistan on Saturday (5pm) and with Nzalang National of Equatorial Guinea (2008 and 2012 African champions) on Tuesday next week (9am).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .