 Aerial view of Lagos mainland  For instance, the average rate per month at which studio apartments are rented increased by 24.16 percentage points from 42 per cent in 2017 to 66.16 percent in 2019,
 
However, the corresponding supply to meet the huge demands for sale of unit apartments are dwindling in some cities.
In Lagos for instance, where apartments are taking the centre stage, supply is miserably low in the mainland, while the Lekki axis is recording a boom. Conversely unit apartment rentals are higher in the mainland but lower in the Island.
 
But experts have attributed economic reasons to the dwindling development of unit apartments in the Lagos mainland.
Chairman, Lagos State branch, Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), Adedotun Bamigbola, said the mainland is more or less developed to its maximum, especially notable locations for upper income neighbourhood such as Surulere and Ikeja, where one expects these sales to happen.
  
He stressed that in such locations there are no vast land and infrastructural improvements as in Island axis.
Bamigbola also said the mainland seems to be the choice of many, who desire to be in the location due to its centrality, that is why they are targeting Surulere and Yaba.
  
According to him, there is ongoing development regularly in Lekki axis but that does not happen like that   on the  mainland,  except when you  are extending to the hinterlands like Abule Egba,  Alimosho, Mushin and Isolo, where there are urban renewal.
 
“So, with all these challenges, the desire for middle and upper income earners, who are mostly the ones that can afford such accommodations are not in such common areas.  “The experiences of Nigerians right from governance, community and other interdependent relationships, which generally are unpleasant may also be a factor. People are by this reason naturally inclined to exclusivity where they believe they will be in control of their destinies.
 
“Disposal also weighs in the mind of many investors. They have seen value of property assets eroded by acts of other apartments’ owners, regardless of what a diligent individual investor may do to protect his or her asset,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .