 Director, Ogun State Waste Management Authority, Akinbode Shofola (left);  Oresanya;  Akeweje and Personal Assistant to the Managing Director, Oluwanishola Cattle Market, Isheri, Ogun State, Hammed Salihu  at the event.PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI  The Special Adviser to the Governor on Environment/Chief Executive Officer of OGWAMA, Mr. Ola Oresanya, who disclosed this during the flag-off of the exercise on Thursday, said indiscriminate disposal of waste into the Ogun River, contributes immensely to the perennial challenge of flooding. It was learnt that wastes generated from the Kara abattoir like cow dung, waste water, unused animal feeds, agricultural wastes, industrial wastes, market-related wastes, ash, black smoke, gaseous emissions and partially combusted materials, among others are constantly disposed into the river. Oresanya revealed that the state government was ready to prevent indiscriminate disposal of wastes from the market into the river, as the practice would lead to flooding when the dam is opened. He said: “This market, which is the largest cattle market in the Southwest, is the gateway to Ogun State, and as good as it is, it has the challenge of environmental pollution, especially disposal of wastes into the Ogun River. Whatever happens to the river affects people using the water. The fact is that we don’t want these wastes to go into the river. Our effort is basically to control the wastes. “It has been discovered that about 25 to 30 tonnes of waste is generated here daily, which go into the river and we are ready to stop it, to stop the issue of flooding. The ministry of agric will work with the market to treat the waste and ensure it doesn’t flow into the river. Water hyacinth indicates pollution. We don’t want water hyacinth. “The Kara market you are seeing today will change. We are preserving the market. The state government is looking at putting recycling plant here, to recycle the wastes. If this comes to fruition, it will ensure job creation and other opportunities for people.” Oresanya noted that fence would be constructed to demarcate where the cattle are placed and the road, adding that wastes will be evacuated on daily basis. Henceforth, the market leaders have been directed to engage at least 20 sweepers to sweep the market environment daily, while waste Private Sector Provider (PSP) has been assigned to cart away all the wastes generated daily. We have also provided three big waste bins to also stop indiscriminate dumping of refuse around the market. The Secretary of the Oniwanishola Market & Cattle Dealers Nigeria Ltd, Alhaji Babalola Adewale, who revealed that the market had been in existence for over 30 years, promised that the market stakeholders would cooperate with the state government to achieve a cleaner market. He, however, noted that the cattle market is still in dire need of drainage system, more boreholes and covering of the slaughter slab, adding that they’ll do their best to ensure that the market is clean always. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .