 [FILES] Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) has announced a slight change in the commencement date of the 15th Zenith Women Basketball League  The vice President of Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) Babs Ogunade, says the body is seeking for funds to organise the proposed male and female bubble Premier league format this session after court granted it the legal right to administer the league. Speaking with The Guardian, Ogunade stated that the judiciary process against the Musa Kida-led board, which stopped NBBF from running the league for three years, had distracted sponsors from investing in the dunking game. He said that for Nigeria basketball to regain its stand domestically, more organsations must invest in the league. “NBBF is delighted by the judgment, which the court gave the body to legally run the league. At this point, I believe the past board of the NBBF needs to release the NBBF account to the current board so that we can run the league effectively. “Base on the COVID-19 situation in the country, NBBF is working towards organising the league in a bubble format. But this will cost huge amount of money. Our focus is to seek for funds because in a bubble situation, every team has to be camped in same hotel, and lots of buses have to be made available to carry the players. Also, COVID-19 test have to be done regularly on players, and other logistics, which needs much funds. The board has been faced with challenges of not getting sponsors base on the court process. I am delighted that NBBF was able to achieve a remarkable landmark so far. It is the first country in Africa after several years to have both male and female teams at the Olympics. We are forging ahead to replicate this success by improving the standard of the league,” he said. Meanwhile, NBBF has confirmed that coach Mfon Udofia will lead D’Tigers to the 2021 Afrobasket qualifiers billed to hold in Monastir, Tunisia, from February 17 to 21. Mfon, who joined the senior men’s national team technical crew just before the 2019 FIBA World Cup, will fill in for Head Coach, Mike Brown, who is currently tied down on coaching duty by Golden State Warriors Basketball club in the United States of America. NBBF also stated that Coach Alex Nwora would also be missing due to family and personal reasons. NBBF President, Engr Musa Kida, said: “Mike Brown is engaged in his primary job, and occupied at this time as the assistant coach with Golden State Warriors. Coach Alex is staying back for personal and intimate reasons, which we understand. Our head coach to Tunisia will be Mfon Udofia.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .