The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, Festus Yusufu Daudu, has charged NIPOST management to suggest innovations that would enhance their revenue generation. He stated this on Wednesday, during the official presentation of the SERVICOM Compliant Evaluation Report on NIPOST by the National Coordinator/Chief Executive Officer, SERVICOM, Mrs. Nnenna Akajemili, to the Ministry at its headquarters in Abuja. Daudu, an engineer said the Ministry is aware of the challenges of NIPOST and urged the management to come up with innovative ideas that would improve revenue generation for the organization. He said: “We are in the era of technology; NIPOST has no excuse to complain about revenue generation. You have to devise other means of generating revenue and ensure quality service to the citizens.” He said the main objectives of every government globally is service delivery to his people, and make life better for the citizens, adding that SERVICOM Compliant Evaluation report is not meant to witch-hunt any agency but a means of looking into the strength and weakness of MDAs. Daudu assured that the report would be looked into by the Ministry, and analyse areas of encouragement and what the management needs to do to encourage NIPOST to do its best as well as areas of assistance from the government. In his remarks, the Chief Operating Officer, NIPOST, Yahaya Ahmadu Rufai, representing the Postmaster-General, said they are happy with the report, which has unveiled some of the challenges NIPOST is facing. He added NIPOST has been out of the Federal Capital budget for over two decades and has sustained its operations through internally-generated revenue, which is very meagre. Earlier, the SERVICOM boss, Akajemili, said the overall objective of SERVICOM Compliant Evaluation report is to ensure citizens focus on service delivery by Ministries Department and Agencies (MDAs). She added that her team visited 22 NIPOST locations to interact with staff and customers, and identify gaps existing in those offices and services; this led to recommendations from their findings on how to improve services and ensure customers satisfaction. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .