The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has continued to put the heat on drug traffickers with the arrest of a businessman at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja and another man at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, with over three kilogrammes of cocaine carefully concealed in luggage. While Adeleke Kazeem Biola was arrested at the Lagos Airport with 1.5 kilogrammes of cocaine on Wednesday night, February 3, 2021, during the outward clearance of passengers on Emirate Airline to Dubai, a Lagos-based businessman, Onu Oluchukwu Friday, was caught with 1.527 kilograms of the illicit drug at the Abuja Airport. According to the Commander, MMIA Command of the NDLEA, Mr Ahmadu Garba, the suspect, Adeleke was intercepted at the departure hall in Lagos with the hard drug neatly concealed in a false bottom of his bag. Garba said: “He acknowledged that the series of arrests in the past three weeks follow the offensive action approach deployed by his command in line with the directive by the new Chairman/Chief Executive of the agency, Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (Rtd).” NDLEA’s cocaine detector  “He excreted 83 wraps of substances, which proved positive for cocaine and weighed 1.527kg. The suspect, who claimed he is into plumbing material business in Lagos, came into Abuja for the purpose of trafficking drugs, and said he was to be paid N1.5million on delivery to one Chibuzo Nmadu, a Nigerian based in India.” He said his command remains committed to the mission of the new leadership of the agency to disrupt the supply chain and reduce the demand for illicit drugs in Nigeria. The chairman of the anti-drug agency, Gen. Marwa has sent his commendation to the commanders of the Lagos and Abuja airports and their teams for their vigilance, while urging them to intensify efforts so that the mission could rid the country of the scourge of illicit drugs collectively, the NDLEA statement added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .