President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the newly-elected Director-General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and President, African Development Bank (AFDB), Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina, have called for the development of economic infrastructure, investment in youths and enhanced private sector contribution for Lagos to achieve its vision of becoming a smart city. They spoke, yesterday, on the first day of the ongoing three-day Lagos economic summit dubbed, Eghingbeti Lagos Economic Summit 2021, with the theme “Setting the tone for a greater Lagos.” In his goodwill message, Buhari said the Federal Government was determined to open up opportunities by which Lagos State can achieve its projections for smart city status. The President pledged that the Federal Government would support massive investments in Lagos State to enable it to boost its economic potential as one of the world’s fastest-growing megacities. He commended Lagos State Government for its partnership and collaboration with the Federal Government in putting together an economic summit aimed at improving the lives of citizens of the state. He said the Federal Government had several ongoing projects in Lagos, applauding Sanwo-Olu for his resolve to continue the development of the state. In a virtual question and answer with Sanwo-Olu, Okonjo-Iweala said apart from construction of roads, Lagos should invest in technology, such as broadband for every household, embrace artificial intelligence and digital economy, ensure a steady and sustainable supply of electricity and renewable energy/green to remain competitive in the next decade. She added that the state should harness the youths by providing employment. In his contributions, Adesina said the youths were the assets for the state and should be given chance to contribute meaningfully. He said the state should also invest in education by turning tertiary institutions in the state to world-class institutions. Sanwo-Olu said Lagos State would be a smart city fully covered by a network of several thousands of kilometres of fibre optic infrastructure that would carry broadband Internet into our homes, offices and schools and unleash a technology revolution that has never before been seen in this part of the world. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .