Rivers United will host Enyimba in the second leg, second round of their CAF Confederation Cup qualifiers in Port Harcourt… on February 21. Rivers United Coach, Stanley Eguma, has pledged to give his best to ensure his team defeat Enyimba of Aba in the second leg, second preliminary round of the CAF Confederation Cup. The match is slated for February 21 at the Adokiye Amiesimaka International Stadium in Port Harcourt. The Pride of Rivers lost 0—1 to the Peoples Elephant in the first leg played at the Enyimba International Stadium in Aba and in the process missed the N20 million largesse Governor Nyesom Wike pledged to the players and officials of the team had Rivers United beaten Enyimba in Aba. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Eguma said he was not happy that Rivers United lost to Enyimba in the first leg, adding that the team needed to work harder to accomplish the governor’s desire and plans for the team. “Unfortunate, we lost the match against Enyimba in Aba. That is football and interestingly the tie is a two-leg game and we have another chance to redeem ourselves. So, it now depends on us to work toward the second leg and see if we can get a better result to qualify for the group stage. “It is important for a team to qualify for the group stage and the two teams are Nigerian clubs. One good thing is that the team that qualifies means that Nigeria will still be there in the group stage of the competition. For us, we are going to do our best for Rivers United to qualify,” he said. On Governor Nyesom Wike’s expectations of Rivers United, Eguma said: “The governor has motivated the team well enough as he has always been doing as the chief motivator of the club. This is not a new thing because he has been doing that in the past. He is the governor who will reward excellence if the team wins the next game. “It is now left for the players to work harder and ensure they get the money on offer for them. And it is also important for me as a coach that I take Rivers United into the group stage. I have done that in the past and I believe that I can still do it again. Qualifying into the group stage of the CAF Confederation Cup competition will be a good one for me because it is going to add to my CV. “Rivers United had been in the group stage of the CAF Confederation competition before in the 2016/2017 season when we came second behind league winners, Enugu Rangers. “Also, as a coach I played in the group stage of the Champions League when Enyimba won the cup in 2004. So, I am not new to the system, but I will do my best to get a good result against Enyimba in the return fixture by God’s grace.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .