 Willie Obiano  Apart from the governing APGA, which is still sweating in court over the issue of authentic leadership at the national level, the incumbent has little or nothing to do with the nomination processes in the other three platforms.
 
That observation is however not prejudicial to apprehensions within the federal governing APC that the governor might join the party in the event that the outcome of the many leadership processes in court do not favour his faction of APGA.  APC, Beyond Obiano
THE 2017 governorship candidate of APC, Nwoye, is as yet the only contender from Anambra North in the party. The implication of Nwoye’s position as one of the contestants on the APC is manifold. Given that about seven other aspirants are from different towns in Anambra South, he could stand a great chance if the party adopts the indirect mode in the governorship primary.
 
But, the situation could also definitely be dicey if the direct methodology is put in place because in the event that he garners the votes from the entire Anambra North, he would be fighting with the eight other aspirants for ballots of members from Anambra Central and South Senatorial Districts. 
 
One question on the lips of APC members is whether Nwoye was in the race for revenge or to serve as the beautiful bride to the other stronger contenders like Senator Andy Ubah, Azuka Okwuosa, George Moghalu, Dozie Nwankwo and JohnBosco Onunkwo.  Funding Concerns
DURING the 2017 governorship poll in the state, it was public knowledge that the Chairman of Atlas Oranto Petroleum, Prince Arthur Eze, bankrolled the APC standard-bearer, Nwoye. Sources disclosed that the billionaire oil magnate and philanthropist decided to fund Nwoye’s campaigns not only because of his acclaimed love for younger leaders, but also to spite Senator Andy Uba, for past misunderstanding during the President Olusegun Obasanjo era.
 
During a recent strategy meeting of APC stakeholders in Anambra State, the issue of funding dominated talks as most speakers harped on the paucity of funds available to the state chapter.  However, in a bid to get around that bottleneck, stakeholders have begun talks in Abuja, Lagos and Awka with a view to achieving a seamless governorship primary that would leave no scars on the structure. 
 
As the talks and possible scenarios on the other platforms are being undertaken, Nwoye is being touted as a beautiful bride as it is believed that whoever he decides to align with would carry the day.
 
State Coordinator of Buhari Legacy Continuity Initiative (BLCI), Ozo Engineer Sam Osita Oraegbunam, explained that what Nwoye has going for him is that having been a state chairman of PDP and governorship candidate of APC, he maintains a formidable political structure that cuts across the three senatorial zones.
 
Donating this structure, therefore, could be the main bargain assuming the former lawmaker decides to pitch tent with any of the five contenders.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .