The Department of State Services (DSS) has re-echoed its alert on the need for Nigerians to be vigilant against ethnic violence in some parts of the country. According to spokesman of the Service, Dr. Peter Afunanya, “The DSS hereby reminds the public of its earlier warnings about plans by persons and groups to exploit some fault lines to cause ethno-religious violence in parts of the country. “Latest developments indicate desperate efforts by these groups to subvert public order. In this regard, they have continued to resort to inciting, unguarded and divisive statements and acts. “The objective is to pit citizens against one another in order to apparently inflame the embers of tribal and religious discords. “For the umpteenth time, the Service strongly warns these elements to desist forthwith from their planned nefarious acts or face the full wraths of the law. “However, the DSS will, in collaboration with other security and law enforcement agencies, take necessary steps to ensure the safety of lives and property of the citizenry”. The secret agency had on January 11, warned of plans by some Nigerians together with external forces to incite religious violence in Nigeria. According to DSS in that statement, those individuals target states like Sokoto; Kano; Kaduna; Plateau; Rivers, Oyo, Lagos, and the rest of the South East. He had added that part of the plans was to cause inter-religious conflicts by using their foot soldiers to attack some worship centres, religious leaders, personalities, key and vulnerable points. The statement read then: “The Department of State Services (DSS) wishes to alert the public about plans by some elements working with external forces to incite religious violence across the country. Targeted states include Sokoto, Kano, Kaduna, Plateau, Rivers, Oyo, Lagos and those in the South East. “Part of the plans is to cause inter-religious conflicts as well as use their foot soldiers to attack some worship centres, religious leaders, personalities, key and vulnerable points. “Consequently, Nigerians are advised to be wary of these antics and shun all divisive tendencies aimed at inciting or setting them against one another.” Afunanya had also said that the service would collaborate with sister agencies to ensure that public order is maintained, noting that those hatching the plots are warned to desist from them in the interest of peace, security, and development of the country. He also, asked law abiding citizens and residents to report suspected breaches of peace around them to the nearest security agencies.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .