DPR sealing a Total Filling Station in Port Harcourt. photo: NAN The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) Wednesday said the Federal Government is making efforts to upgrade the downstream of the petroleum industry to the global standard. The downstream has the capacity to improve revenue from the oil and gas sector, increase contribution to Gross Domestic Product and create massive employment but the sector has been bedevilled by challenges in Nigeria. Director of DPR, Sarki Auwalu at a virtual meeting with the members of the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria ( MOMAN) however said the industry would leverage technology in its ongoing automation process to make the sector perform better. According to him, the agency is currently deploying appropriate technology to enhance value for operators and investors alike in the Downstream sector. Sarki also noted that DPR has concluded plans to launch the Downstream Remote Monitoring Systems (DRMS) an inventory and regulatory tool designed to track product levels across retail outlets and depots using the shortcode-  *7117#.
The development according to him will create value for the sector by providing access to data for efficient management of their operations. Sarki assured that DPR as partners in progress will continue to engage with MOMAN to ensure seamless communication and feedback on our regulatory activities. He said that DPR has developed a framework around quality,  quantity,   integrity and safety (QQIS) for petroleum products in response to the current situation of price freedom in the Downstream sector. He lauded the support of MOMAN for the gas expansion program of government and advised the association to ensure their members’ compliance with the gas add-on directives for their stations as they are the energy bridge of the nation. The Chairman of MOMAN,   Tunji Oyebanji assured the DPR of the readiness of the association to always partner with the Department for the development and growth of the Downstream sector.
He applauded the technology deployment by DPR in its operations which has enhanced its approval processes and data collection drive. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .