 Insurance FC  Sabina Chikere, the club’s Coordinator, announced the increment when he paid a working visit to the players in camp. Chikere said that the increase was part of efforts to boost the players’ morale in the ongoing 2020/2021 season of the Nigeria National League (NNL). She said that the increment was necessitated by the need to avoid distraction in the club’s effort to secure promotion to the nation’s elite league at the end of the season. According to her, the players’ feeding allowance has been increased from N3, 000 per day to N6, 300 daily. “I want to officially inform you that the Deputy Governor has increased your camp allowance from N9, 000 to N18, 900; meaning you will now be receiving N6, 300 daily as against N3, 000. “Your three days away allowance will now be N18, 900 as against the previous N9, 000,’’ Chikere stated, Chikere stated. The Insurance FC coordinator, who also doubles as the Coordinator of Edo Queens FC, said that the female team also got similar increment. She, however, said that the state government would continue to be responsible for feeding the players while in camp for their homes matches. She tasked the players and crew of Insurance FC to continue to justify government commitment to their welfare. She said they should do this by ensuring that they remained committed to securing promotion to the premier league at the end of the season. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Insurance began their campaign in the NNL on Saturday with a 2-1 home win against Joy Cometh FC of Lagos. The Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, donated N1 million to the players for wining the match. NAN reports that the players currently enjoy N15, 000 and N30, 000 match bonuses for home and away wins respectively. The club’s least and highest paid player receives N150, 000 and N200, 000 monthly as salary respectively. Insurance next NNL match is away to Crown FC of Ogbomosho on Wednesday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .