 [files] Sunday Adeyemo (a.k.a. Sunday Igboho)  Access to Justice (A2J) has denounced what it described as the horrific and brutal manner the Department of State Service (DSS) raided the residence of Sunday Igboho in Ibadan, Oyo State and called for the resignation of the DSS director. The group said the so-called raid, in planning and execution, was predicated on, and accompanied with needless and tragic violence, leading to avoidable loss of human lives, and was, therefore, unconstitutional and illegitimate. In a statement signed by Joseph Otteh and Deji Ajare, Convener and Project Director, respectively, the group was deplorable, rash, unjustifiable as well as unprofessional, and fails to meet standard minimum requirements of a responsible arms-bearing agency of government. The group, therefore, demanded for the immediate resignation or removal of the Director of the State Service, alongside the resignation/removal of all officials of the service, who authorised the raid. They also called for a thorough investigation into the attack and prosecution of all those whose conduct were reckless and unjustifiable. According to A2J, the UN basic principles on the use of force and firearms provides that “governments shall ensure that arbitrary or abusive use of force and firearms by law enforcement officials is punished as a criminal offence under their law.” The DSS, and indeed other security agencies, it said, must rethink their strategic approach to dealing with political grievances/causes and groups, which express them. “A2J is concerned that the agency is perceived as politically partisan and motivated in its responses to many grievances held by citizens against the incumbent government. But there is a clear, strategic need for government institutions, particularly those related to security and law enforcement, to act with greater sensitivity and thoughtfulness to avoid actions capable of further inflaming already heated passions in the country, hardening more minds and hearts and causing more serious political and socio-economic instability in Nigeria,” it stated. In another development, the 2018 International Bar Association (IBA) Human Rights Lawyer of the Year, Adeola Oyinlade, has condemned the alleged killing of a 14 year old drink seller by stray bullet at Ojota, Lagos during the Yoruba Nation rally on Saturday. According to the lawyer, the incident is sad, unwarranted and avoidable. “The killing of this innocent girl in a shop put serious questions on the strategy, policy, planning and tactics of our police system in dispersing unarmed crowds by firing live bullets or killing citizens they are constitutionally empowered to protect. “It is important to state that at this critical period in the life of our dear country, adherence to human rights and international standards is what the police need to gain the trust of the society, while carrying out their duties lawfully,” he said. Oyinlade declared that the innocent girl deserves justice, as her parents and family members have been put in an unexpected state of mourning. He stated: “I call on the leadership of the Nigerian Police, Lagos State Command to immediately commence investigation on this matter, fish out and prosecute the killer.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .