 Youth and Sports Development Minister, Sunday Dare (left), and Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, at the unveiling of SIFAX Group’s financial support for Aruna Quadri and Olufunke Oshonaike in aid of their preparations for Tokyo 2020 Olympics in Lagos… yesterday  Speaking yesterday during the public hearing for the Bill to return of the NSC, Dare asked for a new- look NSC that would meet modern realities. He said, “Let me thank the chairman of the Senate Committee on Youth and Sports and all the committee members on behalf of all sports loving Nigerians for undertaking this public hearing. It demonstrates your interest in the development of sports in our country. But beyond that interest is the commitment to see that necessary action and legislation are in place to guide sports development in Nigeria. “Amending the existing Decree 34 of 1971, which is still subsisting or promising a new bill are possible options. “The world over, we have seen sport become big business. Sport as business is a pre-requisite for any country that intends to develop the sector successfully. A sport as business policy and orientation opens the doors for investments from the organised private sector. “Governments are no longer the sole investors in sports development. Private sector participation drives sports, rewards athletes, creates jobs, drives manufacturing, generated revenue and contributes to GDP.” The minister added, “at the ministry, we have, in the past 18 months, been busy working with critical stakeholders to deliver a new sports industry policy, that will change the face and fundamentals of our sports development. It is an attempt to build a business model around sports in Nigeria so that like we have in North America, Europe, South Africa and other climes, Nigeria’s sports development can be driven by both government and private funds.	” The minister said his ministry has successfully secured the re-classification of sports from being a mere recreation to business. “President Muhammadu Buhari in Council approved this reclassification. Sport is now business in Nigeria in principle. The policy that will drive this will soon be ready as it is in its final stages,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .