Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike (second left); Deputy Governor, Mrs. Ipalibo Harry-Banigo and state Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Desmond Akawor at the inauguration of Government House Jetty at the Marine Base Waterfront in Port Harcourt…yesterday. PHOTO: NAN Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, yesterday, declared that the government he leads would not allow anybody to draw the state backward through ethnicity. He stated this at the unveiling of the reconstruction of the Rivers State Government House Jetty at the Marine Base Waterfront in Port Harcourt. “Nobody will set Rivers State backward, because ethnicity has set us backward. We have not progressed so far because we blindfold ourselves against the truth due to ethnic sentiments,” he said. Wike expressed disappointment at the destruction of the tourism opportunities offered by the marine features around the area by residents of shanties at Marine Base. “If we have a place like this, you can’t imagine how many people will like to visit Rivers State. Today, we are talking about tourism, but how can we say that there should be a tourism centre when we have all these shanties around?” he asked. Lamenting how residents encroached on the land where the Government House facility is located, he said it took security officers to give the trespassers a good fight before evicting them to clear the premises for the project. Wike said the state government would no longer allow the shanties on the Marine Base road, adding: “If I knew how this place was, I would not have approved this project.” He said he would invite the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), House of Assembly member representing Port Harcourt Constituency II, Tonye S. Adoki and Chairman of Port Harcourt Council for a meeting to deliberate on how to sanitise Marine Base. Unveiling the project, state Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Desmond Akawor, noted that if there were no projects, there would not have been need for the state government to invite people for their unveiling or inauguration. He explained that the jetty was an addition to other completed projects within Government House, like the clinic and administrative building for improved medical services, increase personnel efficiency and enhanced aesthetics.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .