 Francis  Tomorrow, it will be a tough call for the judges and the fans, like the show, which premiered on March 14, would be left with the top two final contestants, Kingdom Kroseide and Francis Atela, who will battle it out on the live stage, hoping to be crowned the winner of the competition with Idol prize of N50,000,000 and a recording contract with a leading record label. To emerge as the final top two contestants, 26-year-old Atela, at Sunday live show, performed Marvin Gaye’s Sexual healing and Please forgive me by Bryan Adams, while Kroseide performed Say Something by A Great Big World featuring Christina Aguilera and The lion sleeps tonight, which was originally written and recorded by Solomon Linda under the title ‘Mbube’ for the South African Gallo Record Company in 1939. Kingdom  Their performances stunned the fans and the judges. The fierce-looking and tough-talking judge, DJ Sose, had been wowed by Kroseide’s performance, and in his good mood, put in good words: “We are not giving up on you, you keep climbing higher.” For Seyi Shay, it was a perfect song, as she said: “l am very proud of you, your performance is magical and l am proud of you.” Not left out, the father figure judge, Obi Asika, enthused: “You always have the voice, your confidence shows you know what you are doing. You also have the swag.” Atela’s first song, So High, by John Legend, was welcomed with accolades as Asika remarked: “You have a stadium performance; l can feel what you are singing.” DJ Sose, who was very elated, pointed out Atela’s excellent stage presence and quality voice. “Lots of people can feel what you are singing and you have proven why you are here,” he said. His second song, Please forgive me, left Seyi speechless, while DJ Sose posits: “I like that; you did it technically. I would prefer you walk the stage more than you did.” Asika, who was also delighted with the gig, said: “You have the presence and the voice, well done.” Speaking further, Asika extolled the two talents. “You guys are creating problems here today; your performance, stage presence and swag are all incredible. You are going to be a star.” Atela, since the beginning of the show, has been consistent with his vocals, performance every week, while Kroseide, who hails from Bayelsa State, has also given his all and impressed viewers and judges with his vocals and performance. It was also a moment that saw Akunna evicted as she polled the lowest number of votes. Before she bowed out finally, she was given the last opportunity to perform what the judges said was her best song, and she Set Fire to the Rain performing with Adele’s scripted record. The diva in the making was recently quoted as saying “I want to be a motivation to professionals. I know I have the talent, and I want the whole world to see that there is this side of me.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .