 Bola Tinubu. PHOTO: Getty Images  The All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday, formally welcomed Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle to the party, commending him for not succumbing to the coercion and pressure mounted by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for him to remain with it. In a statement by his Media Aide, Tunde Rahman, Tinubu said the move by Matawalle showed that he was dedicated to bringing good governance to his state and move to a party founded on democratic ideals. Tinubu said in the statement: “Along with all other APC members, I heartily welcome Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State into the APC. The move by Governor Matawalle shows that he is dedicated to bringing good governance to his state and that the best way to do this is to be a member of the party that was founded on democratic ideals and the objective of forging a better society for all Nigeria’s people. “That party is the APC for it represents the best of our present and our future. “As did by Governors David Umahi of Ebonyi State and Ben Ayade of Cross River before him, Governor Matawalle withstood the coercion and pressure of the PDP to remain with it. “I encourage Governor Matawalle to now work even more closely and co-operatively with President Muhammadu Buhari to help realise his progressive mandate and tackle the challenges that now face us. “The APC’s doors are open to those who want democracy to flourish. The entry of Governors Matawalle, Umahi and Ayade into the party demonstrates that the APC umbrella is succinctly broad to accommodate all those with valuable ideas and contributions to the party and our country.” MEANWHILE, the Zamfara State Deputy Governor, Muhammad Gusau, has refused to move to the APC after his principal, Matawalle, defected to the ruling party from the PDP. Gusau pledged his loyalty to the main opposition party and hinged his decision on counsel from his family and associates. Although he claimed that the governor did not consult him before his defection to the APC, Gusau promised to work with his principal in addressing the numerous challenges facing the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .