Sound Sultan | Image: Instagram/soundsultan The remains of the popular Nigerian music artiste, Olanrewaju Abdul-Ganiu Fasasi, who is professionally known as Sound Sultan, who died yesterday after a hard-fought battle with Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma (cancer of the throat) has been buried in Brooklyn, New York in the United States. Aged 44, he was buried according to the Islamic rites, as he was a practicing Muslim. Guests at the burial ceremony include Nigerian Afro-dancehall musician, and humanitarian, Yinka Lawanson known by his stage name Lamboginny, who transmitted the burial activities live on his Instagram handle @lamboginny. Meanwhile, Nigerian entertainers took to social media to mourn his passing. Among entertainers who expressed shock over the news of the death of the Jagbanjantis crooner is Afrobeat legend, Femi Kuti who dropped a remark on the last post shared on Instagram by the deceased. “I am shocked and very SAD reading this news of the passing of Sound Sultan (HE IS FAMILY) I pray our Creator to give his family strength at this time,” he wrote. Artiste manager, Efe Omorogbe wrote, “Rest in glory my brother @soundsultan. You’ll live forever in our hearts. Allah gives.” Also, popular rapper and activist, Stephen Ugochukwu, better known by his stage name, Ruggedman wrote:” Words escape me…. Ha! This hurts badly.” On his part, singer GT Da Guitarman thanked the late Old crooner for the lessons and for sharing the gift of his music with the world. “Thanks for sharing your talent with the world boss. I am confused as to what the meaning of life is rn…but I am sure you understand better than us now. Till we meet again..thanks for the lessons and the gift of music. My thoughts and prayers with your family. I can’t type enough words..just lost and know it’s we the living that’s next. Rest on king!” he wrote. Defunct Plantashun Boiz member, Chibuzor Orji also known as Faze wrote, “Too good to be gone. Worst Sunday ever. RIP my brother and friend,” while his former bandmate, Innocent Ujah Idibia popularly known as Tuface Idibia now 2Baba, wrote: “Rest in glory my brother, @soundsultan. You live forever in our hearts. Allah gives…” Devastated by the news, singer Aituaje Iruobe, better known as Waje wrote, “Heartbroken, No words.” On his part, actor Richard Mofe Damijo, who recently turned 60, wrote, “Did you know when you wished me happy birthday three days earlier than usual that you won’t have the strength to do it a day later? Words would never be enough my brother.” Yinka Lawanson aka Lamboginny wrote, “THIS ONE HIT ME HARD- When I heard you were in New York receiving treatment, I rushed down immediately to see you. You were happy to see me; you shared testimonies on your recovery and cracked everyone in the room with your jokes + spirit. “When I asked if there’s anything I can do to help, you said just pray for me and told me you have been looking for a particular kind of Crocs that will go with your head warmers. You were so happy when I sent you the Crocs and took pictures to show me. We later planned to surprise your wife with some Crocs too and you were so happy and sent me pictures of both of you rocking your Crocs together.” “Today, I chose to hold on to the joy, smiles, jokes, and testimonies you shared with me from your hospital bed. I love you so much boss and continue to rest up king,” he added. Describing the late Sound Sultan as the kindest and most humble person and artiste she ever had the opportunity to work with, soul singer Aramide wrote: “Upcoming or established he keeps the same support energy. He gives 100 percent support always; very accessible and gives great advice.” “If he’s on a song with you he’ll come for rehearsals, he even travelled to Abeokuta with me to shoot a video, zero stress, no forming boss levels, no complaining, he was simply a rare gem and dem no dey plenty, especially in this our industry. Thank you for helping me. And yes the second slide is when we won our Headies award for funmilowo remix. Rest in power Legend; may God almighty console your family and grant them peace,” she added. Comedian Efe Egborge who is professionally known as Efe Warri Boy wrote, “Our national treasure SS you will always be in our hearts.” Surprised at the news and not believing it, on-air personality, Steve Onu aka Yaw, wrote: “Are we sure Calls are not coming into this phone hence d pause.” An ardent fan of the singer, enny_kings wrote, “Sultan of sound, Sultan of music, Sultan of lyrics, Sultan of creativity….king of musical activism.” Born November 27, 1976, Sound Sultan was regarded as one of the pacesetters of modern hip-hop music in Nigeria. He was notable for using his music to speak against poverty, corruption, and bad government and ills in Nigeria. His interest in music began in 1991 when he began miming at school parties and writing his own lyrics. He attributes his early influence to his elder brother Dare Fasasi who is well known as Baba Dee. By 1999, he had won numerous local talent-hunt shows. He released his first single Jagbajantis in 2000 and was a hit. After independently releasing other singles and featuring in hit songs of other artists, he was signed by Kennis Music. Under Kennis Music, he released four albums. By 2007, his contract with the label expired and he partnered with Baba Dee to start Naija Ninjas, a parent organisation for a record label, production outfit, and clothing line. Though he started as a rapper, he has worked in different musical genres from R&B to Afrobeat, soul, and fuji music. While alive, he once said, “artistes shouldn’t be judged on the genre in which they perform, the important thing is the message conveyed in the music.” Sound Sultan had a working relationship with Wyclef Jean when featured alongside 2face Idibia and Faze on Proud to be African from Wyclef’s Welcome to Haiti: Creole 101 album. They collaborated on two other projects: King of My Country (2009) and People Bad (2012). In 2012, he was made a UN Ambassador for Peace for his exemplary lifestyle and career. In 2015, he released the rap single Remember after a long absence from the music scene. In 2009, he married his long-term girlfriend Chichi Morah, now known as Farida Fasasi. The union was blessed with three children. On May 12, 2021, it was reported that the late Sultan was in America where he was receiving treatment in form of chemotherapy as he was reportedly diagnosed with throat cancer (Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma).