 Ozigbo  Fluid is the one word that captures the state of things regarding the forthcoming Anambra State governorship election. By the Independent National Election Commission’s (INEC) timelines, the straw polls by the 18 recognised political parties to select their standard-bearers ended on Thursday July 1.  
  
Invariably, by now, the 18 men and women that would fly the flags of those registered parties should have emerged. But, unfortunately that is not so yet. There are crises in the various platforms, especially those considered as major or front row political parties, including the governing All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
 
As political parties continue to strategise on how to resolve their internal problems and make a mark in the election, all eyes are set on the substitution window. Consequently, the clear picture as to the real candidates to appear on the ballot in the November 6 poll would emerge on August 6. INEC in its guidelines specified July 30 as the last day for withdrawal and replacement of withdrawn candidates by political parties.  Uba (APC)
FOR a brief period of 17 days, Senator Andy Uba occupied the office of Governor of Anambra State in the year 2007. The Supreme Court short his stay with a declaration that as at the time INEC conducted the governorship poll, Mr. Peter Obi, who recovered his mandate from Dr. Chris Ngige, was yet to complete the full term of four years in office. Uba did not seek to controvert or challenge the ruling, but quietly moved out of the Government House.  Going by INEC’s timetable, the time for conduct of governorship primaries elapsed on Thursday July 1. Consequently, against the backdrop of INEC’s report, especially it relates to the Zamfara State example in 2019, attention in APC has shifted to the Governorship Primary Election Appeal Committee set up by the national leadership.
  
Although The Guardian gathered that some representations are being made to INEC, available indicators showed that APC would field Senator Uba for the election despite the outcome of the “pressures on the commission to tune down” the EPM’s report.
  
National Commissioner in charge of Publicity and Voter Education, Festus Okoye, denied any pressure on INEC to alter the observation report, adding that legal practitioners and some political parties have applied and collected the Certified True Copy (CTC) of the reports.
  
However, a well-placed APC chieftain confided in The Guardian that influential chieftains insist that Uba should fly the party’s flag in the November 6 poll. ‘’They see Uba as the only aspirant capable of prosecuting the governorship election successfully,” he stated, explaining that APC governors are divided on Uba and Moghalu.
    
Given what is playing out in the mega parties, if Uba goes for the election despite the negative EPM report, the implication would be that he has been primed to win, especially given that he is being backed two powerful individuals that are listed in Forbes among the richest people in Africa.  Three-Headed APGA, ADC Challenge
IN a space on one week, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) endured no less than four judicial pronouncements, which aided the existence of three factions.
 
The one ruling that sent tongues wagging was the matter between Sopulu Ezeonwuka and APGA at the Federal High Court Awka, in which the plaintiff/applicant prayed the court in Suit No. FHC/AWK/CS/35/2021, to, among other reliefs, recognise Chief Edozie Njoku as the party’s National Chairman.
  
The plaintiff also urged the Court presided over by Justice Nganjiwa to grant an order of mandatory injunction in favour of Chief Njoku. However, in his ruling, the Judge noted that since the reliefs sought are same as contained in the main suit, it would amount prejudice if the application were granted.
  
While the court dismissed Ezeonwuka’s application, the Anambra State High Court presided over by Hon Justice C. C.Okaa, refused to extend the application by counsel to Oye, Patrick Ikwueto SAN, to extend the exparte order it earlier granted restraining Njoku faction from conducting a governorship primary.
  
The State High Court ruling on June 29, paved the way for the Njoku faction to conduct a governorship primary, which threw up the claimant as winner.
  
In another court ruling, the APGA faction headed by Jude Okeke vacated the injunction from Ororekpe barring it from conducting a governorship primary or interfering in the running of APGA. From Okeke’s faction, a member of House of Representatives, Hon. Chukwuma Michael Umeoji, was returned as winner of the governorship primary.  Sources disclosed that Njoku resisted Ukachukwu’s ploy to surrogate Sopulu Ezeonwuka, stressing that since he once contested election to represent Onitsha North/South Federal Constituency, there is no constitutional barrier against his running for governor of Anambra State.
 
It was perhaps sensing the convoluted judgements and counter factions in APGA that the former Special Assistant to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Nze Akachukwu Nwankpo, withdrew his membership after a dubious disqualification by the APGA governorship screening committee.   
  
Barely five days after he announced his decision to abide by the screening committee’s verdict, Nwankpo, moved over to the African Democratic Congress (ADC) an offshoot of APGA. It would be recalled that ADC came into being shortly after APGA founder, Chief Chekwas Okorie, stopped Chief Raphs Okey Nwosu, its founder from contesting the 2003 governorship election in the state.
 
Being a homeboy, Ikolo Awka, rallied round stakeholders and offered Nwankpu the ADC platform to resuscitate the party as a living alternative to APGA as it lays claim to Nkea Bu Nkeanyi (this is our own) payoff.
  
Speaking when he paid a courtesy call on the ADC National Chairman, Nwosu, Nwankpo expressed his belief that the “the will of God will prevail in Anambra State,” saying that he was ready to join hands with the party leadership to wrestle power from APGA.
 
“It is only God who makes kings. I pray that the wish of the people will come to pass. Let the will of God prevail in Anambra state. An ADC government will ensure that all Anambra families benefit from their government. We will provide jobs and public services like healthcare. Our great party ADC will have a New Deal with ndi Anambra. It is time to give the voice back to the people,” he declared.
  
In his remarks, Chief Okey Ralph Nwosu, said it was hard to believe the charades taking place in the governing party as well as the main opposition parties in the state.  While decrying the murder of internal democracy in the so-called big parties, the ADC national chairman disclosed that before the coming of Nwankpo, whom he described as man of impeccable character, “many aspirants had approached ADC seeking to buy our nomination forms.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .