 IGP Usman Alkali Baba. Photo/TWITTER/POLICENG  Gunmen have killed three policemen and two others at the Eke-Agu community in Abatete, Idemili North Local Council of Anambra State. Witnesses said the attack happened on Tuesday night, as the hoodlums stormed the community in two Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs) and a Sienna minivan, adding that the policemen were in the convoy. According to a witness, who preferred anonymity, the hoodlums also set three police vehicles ablaze before speeding away from the scene. The Management of Anambra Independent Football League (AIFL) has confirmed one of the victims in the attack, Godsent Eriobu, as its Secretary. Chairman of AIFL, Rev. Obinna Dike, who confirmed the death of the secretary, also said Philip Udala, Chairman of Udala FC, Uke, had neither been seen nor reached on phone since the incident. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in Anambra, Toochukwu Ikenga, confirmed the incident but could not give details.
ELEVEN All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains, including former Military Administrator of Gombe State, Group Capt. Joe Orji (rtd.), will contest the chairmanship position of the party in Enugu in the coming elective congress of the party. Orji had, before now, contested the governorship of the state as well as the Enugu West Senatorial seat on APC platform.
BUT Chairman of the Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) has commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu for the state’s secure and peaceful atmosphere, as well as the giant strides of his administration in infrastructural development. Addressing newsmen after members of the National Executive Council (NEC) of ALGON inspected some projects embarked upon by the Ugwuanyi administration across the state, the National Chairman of ALAGON, Kolade Alabi, said: “My impression about Enugu State is what the legal minds will call ‘fact speaks for itself’.” Disclosing that they were in Enugu for their National Executive Council (NEC) meeting, Alabi said he was thrilled that the College of Medicine, Enugu State University of Technology (ESUT), has been put in place by the governor. He stated: “This Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) has already exposed that we have deficit in healthcare facilities, and what the governor is doing is commendable. “The Commissioner for Information has told me that Ugwuanyi has also provided isolation centres in the general hospitals. That is commendable too.” Speaking on calls for state police, the ALGON boss urged the Federal Government to grant the request to enhance the security of the country. “We also use this medium to urge the Presidency to grant state police because, to me, security is a bottom-top approach; it is not a top-bottom approach, and when we adopt this bottom-top approach to security, then the country will be safe for all of us,” he added. Alabi also applauded the council chairmen in Enugu for their efforts in the area of peace, security and infrastructure in the rural communities, adding: “From what I have seen so far, they have also performed creditably.” On his part, the Commissioner for Information, Nnanyelugo Aroh, who led the team to the project sites, spoke of the significance of the projects to the health and socio-economic wellbeing of Enugu people.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .