 Smoking increased dramatically during world wars, it was supplied to troops for free.  Smoking increased dramatically during world wars, it was supplied to troops for free mainly to boost their morale but later in the 20th century, it became less popular due to a rapid increase in its health effects. Several types of research were conducted and books published on the dangers of tobacco to health, some of which are Samuel Thomas in 1795, Benjamin Rush in 1798 and many more. World No Tobacco Day was celebrated on May 31 but not known to many due to poor campaigns.  Some people smoke cigarettes to numb their level of depressions and stress; it is a naked truth that smoking does not lessen depression but aid in storing toxics that could terminate life if victims refuse to heed the warnings. Some are puffing cigarettes due to pressures and influence from peers, daily mingling with friends that smoke gradually makes one develop interest in it and try to feel how others are feeling when they smoke. One of the key causes of smoking is growing in a family where everyone freely smokes; sending children on errands to buy cigarette or smoking it in their presence make them see it as good and gain audacity to give reasons whenever they are caught in the act.
 
Furthermore, mental trigger to smoke which was as a result of solitude make one smoke beyond count; having no one to keep him or her in company push one to evil practices including smoking. Smoking is a threat to health as it weakens the immune system because nicotine hinders its smooth function; it also leads to bad breath, stained and tooth loss. Minor sickness to other people that do not smoke become serious to those that smoke because their immune systems are weak and could not stand against the invading nicotine toxics. Perturbingly, Cancer Council stated that ‘if the present weak regulations in developing countries continue, tobacco would kill approximately 10 million people annually’.  Therefore to eliminate tobacco usage there is a need to decrease the level of tobacco adverts, marketing and promotion in online and offline media. Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) is a milestone in the protection of public health. Some of the measures carved out by FCTC includes monitor tobacco use and prevention, protect people from tobacco use, offer help to quit tobacco use, warn about the dangers of tobacco, enforce bans on tobacco adverts, promoting or sponsorship and the last one was raise taxes on tobacco. Practicalising these measures in countries could eventually lead to tobacco-free societies.
 
Governments should establish centres for keeping repented smokers, this is to make them forget their past smoking-life and build a greater future. Heavy tax should be imposed on tobacco, tracking and tracing devices should be made available at borders in order to detect tobacco hidden in luggage and anyone found guilty should be punished. Researches need to be conducted on incomes and prices of cigarette should be increased so as to pass income of smokers which at the end would have no choice than to abandon the act. One should not be in company with those that smoke, attending smoking-free gatherings and being busy in profitable ventures are key to abstaining from smoking. Kobi can be reached via Tel. 08100358411. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .