 President, Bible Society of Nigeria (BSN), Rev. (Dr.) Timothy Banwo (left); New General Secretary/Chief Executive, Pastor Samuel Sanusi; former President Olusegun Obasanjo; retiring General Secretary/CEO of BSN, Dr. Dare Ajiboye and the First Vice President of BSN, Anna Asachaya, during the send-forth party for Ajiboye in Lagos…yesterday.  Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has tasked Nigerians on celebration of excellence by giving honour to whom honour is due. Obasanjo said this, yesterday, at the send-forth ceremony for the out-going General Secretary and Chief Executive Officer, Bible Society of Nigeria (BSN), Dr. Richard Dare Ajiboye, who retired after 26 years of meritorious service at the statutory retirement age of 55 as well as change of baton. The former President described Ajiboye as a leader full of energy, who worked more than his predecessors during his service at BSN. “Ajiboye made his way to me just about two years ago for me to be part of a team to look for a new and befitting headquarters for BSN to which I agreed. “For us who are called by Christ’s name, we need to make Christ’s House a befitting one, while the Bible is regarded as a very important element of our faith,” he said. He wished smooth and seamless transition from Ajiboye to his successor, Samuel Sanusi. In the same vein, former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon and Patron, BSN, said Ajiboye’s tenure witnessed remarkable achievement and laudable feat through the help of God, adding that he would be greatly missed. Also, the General Overseer (Worldwide) of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, who was represented by Josiah Bolarinwa, congratulated Ajiboye for retiring in good health as he asked him to prepare for the next level of assignment. The Guest Speaker, the National President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Bishop Francis Wale Oke, described Ajiboye as an icon as he urged members of BSN to co-operate with the incoming General Secretary,  Sanusi. Dare, in his comment, lamented the state of nation and said that the country is in a state of confusion, urging the leaders to call a spade a spade, hold the bull by the horn and tackle the issue of insecurity in the country. He said that leaders in Nigeria had no excuse to absolve themselves from the present situation in the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .