 Railway  President Muhammadu Buhari will today lay the foundation stone of the Kano–Abuja section of the Lagos–Kano railway modernisation project. His Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, explained yesterday that the line connects Kano, passing through Zaria and connects Abuja and Lagos via the modern railway. According to him, the Lagos–Kano rail project is part of the 25-year vision approved by the Federal Government for rail transportation in 2002, which contract was signed on October 30, 2002 with China Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC). The President is also expected to arrive his home state, Katsina, today to commission the multi-billion naira Zobe water treatment plant and newly constructed Dutsinma–Tsaskiya road at Dutsinma Local Council of the state. This is even as the state’s police command announced temporary closure of the Dutsinma–Kankara, Dutsinma–Tsaskiya and other adjoining roads to the venue of the two events from 1.00p.m. to 5.00p.m. The command, in a statement by its spokesperson, SP Gambo Isah, called on motorists and other road-users to use alternative roads. IN another development, emirate councils in Katsina State have suspended public activities for the forthcoming Eid-el-Kabir, citing security reasons. Activities affected are public display by horse riders, known as Durbar, at the palace of the Emir of Katsina, Abdulmumin Usman, and that of the Emir of Daura, Faruk Umar. In May, the Emir of Daura had suspended activities marking the end of the Ramadan fast in the emirate, also for security reasons. The royal father rather directed district heads to join the people in their domains to pray for peace in Nigeria. Spokesman for the Katsina Emirate Council, Iro Bindawa, stated yesterday: “The Emirate Council has suspended activities concerning Durbar during the Sallah, but His Eminence has implored residents to seize the Sallah period in offering prayers for the state and for Nigeria.” The decision of the Daura Emirate council on the suspension of public activities during the Sallah was contained in a letter addressed to the Emirate Council members and the Emir’s advisers. The letter dated July 13, 2021, was signed by the Danejin Daura, Abdulmumini Salihu, on behalf of the council’s secretary. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .