Drake | Image: Paras Griffin/Getty Images Hip hop star Drake was spotted on a private romantic dinner with model Johanna Leia at the Dodger Stadium which he reportedly rented out on Thursday. An ABC7 news helicopter reporter Chris Christi “randomly” flew over the stadium and shared pictures and video of Drake and Leia seated at a large white table covered with several bouquets of flowers with dinner plates in front of them and glasses of rose champagne. Drake and model Johanna Leia | Image: KABC Los Angeles “The pair were spotted just after 11pm Thursday night dining. They were completely alone on the ball field with the exception of a well-appointed butler,” an insider told The Sun. The table was set up close to the dugout near the third-base side of the field and a tuxedo clad bartender stood a little ways off behind a white bar that was erected for the night. Drake and model Johanna Leia | Image: KABC Los Angeles For the occassion, Drake was dressed in a neutral toned sweater while Johanna wore a custom Dodger’s jersey with slicked back hair and a long braid. The beauty and the Hotline Bling singer were gifted with team jerseys with their names on the back for their date. Johanna Leia is the mom of nationally acclaimed high school basketball star Amari Bailey who plays for the Sierra Canyon Trailblazers alongside Bronny James – the son of LeBron James. The Los Angeles Dodgers were playing in Miami, Florida against the Marlins, their legendary baseball stadium was put to use by the Canadian Grammy winner. The Dodgers organization released the following statement to Eyewitness News on the romantic evening, per ABC7: “Drake made a sizable donation to the Los Angeles Dodgers Foundation in order to make his Dodger Stadium dinner date a reality.” Drake and Johanna Leia at the CIF State Open Division Regional Semifinal in Los Angeles in June | Image: Cassy AthenaLondon Entertainment Drake and Leia were spotted together last month at the same high school varsity basketball match to watch the Sierra Canyon Trailblazers and its leading stars, Johanna’s son Amari Bailey and Bronny James. Drake was seated courtside next to actor and friend Michael B. Jordan with the model/actress cheering on her son to his right.