A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State, Olorogun Fred Majemite, has cautioned against division within forces in Delta Central district if they must produce the governor in 2023. Majemite  Majemite, a founding member of the political lobby group, DC-23 (Delta Central -2023), told journalists in Ughelli that the primary concern of the Urhobo of Delta Central now is to produce the governor in 2023 and not to bicker over what axis the governor should come from in the district. “Our concern now should be that the next governor should come from Delta Central, where he comes from in the district is not important. The governor can come from anywhere in the Delta central, that is my concern and the wish of DC-23. We believe that as people of Delta Central anybody who is qualified can contest for governor in 2023. “We will not discriminate against anybody from the district, no, we are all in Delta Central and that is the important thing. We want to concern ourselves now that the governor must come from Delta Central, whether he’s from the Ughelli, Orerokpe or Ethiope axis is not our concern as long the governor comes from Delta Central. We should not descend to that low level of fighting over which axis in Delta Central should get it. We should go for who is fit to be governor from the district. “When we started the lobbying by DC-23, we, first of all, visited the Urhobo kings in their kingdoms we told them of the need to support Urhobo for governor in 2023. “We told them that there is need for us to work as a team, there should not be divided among the Urhobo at all, because the house that is divided can not stand. And unless we are cohesive as a body we may not be able to get the kind of government we wish for our people. “Urhobo must be united no matter the kingdom or clan you come from in Urhobo land, the mantra should be what touches one touch all. And any government that would be produced from Delta Central in 2023 will know that if you develop only your village, you have not developed Delta central. He should ensure that every kingdom and local governments are carried along without shortchanging other local government areas in the state”, Majemite said. The governorship aspirant also spoke on important developments in the Niger Delta region such as the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) and the alleged mismanagement of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). He expressed delight over the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) but was disappointed with the 3 per cent allocation to the oil-producing communities. He said, “I’m happy the PIB has finally been passed it has been there for donkey years. Looking at the problems in the Niger Delta, we can never get enough. The region is grossly underdeveloped. But I’m happy the bill has been passed. Our thinking is that we should not get anything less than 10 percent, so that if we add the 13 percent derivation, it would make some sense. But, we are starting from somewhere. I want our brother outside the Niger Delta to understand that there is hardly any state that does not have any mineral resources. See what is happening in Zamfara where they are mining gold illegally, there are countries that their income depends on such resources. Every state should begin to look inwards and begin to tap into their resources, but everybody is dependent on oil and oil will run dry or there might be a shift like what’s happening in America where they are focusing on shale oil and you saw the impact on oil business in Nigeria”. Majemite condemned the corruption in the NDDC and urged the federal to urgently inaugurate a substantive board for the commission.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .