Chibuike Amaechi The Federal Government has urged the management of Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited and other stakeholders, to work tirelessly to ensure that the port becomes operational by mid-2022. Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, during an inspection visit to the port, expressed satisfaction with the level of progress recorded on the construction of the Lekki Deep Sea Port project. Amaechi inspected the facility in the company of other government agencies like the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), the Nigeria Shippers’ Council (NSC) and the Nigerian Maritime Administrative and Safety Agency (NIMASA). “I am very delighted and impressed with the pace and the progress of construction work on this project compared to the last time I was here in November 2020. The promoter of the project, Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited has demonstrated strong commitment and capacity to deliver the project as agreed,” he said. While briefing the minister and his entourage on the status of the construction of the port, the Chairman, Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise Limited, Abiodun Dabiri explained that the entire port construction is now at 55.48 per cent completion. Giving a further breakdown of the status of the components of the port, Dabiri noted that dredging and reclamation have reached 61.11 per cent, Quay Wall 50.39 per cent, Breakwater 67.49 per cent while the landside infrastructure development has reached 33.70 per cent completion. Dabiri assured the minister and the stakeholders that the project is on course and going according to schedule. He declared that at the end of the third quarter (Q3) 2022, construction work would be complete while, commercial operations will commence by the fourth quarter (Q4) 2022 as planned. “We understand the significance of this project to the Nigerian economy and we would not fail to play our part to ensure that it is delivered as and when due,” he said. The chairman expressed appreciation of the company to the Minister and his team for providing the necessary support that has assisted the it to deliver on the mandate. He stressed further that upon completion, Lekki Port would be a world-class port operating with best-in-class equipment to ensure seamless operations and would comply with global environmental protection standards. He added that Lekki Port is the deepest seaport in the sub-Saharan African region and would serve as a transhipment hub for the region. Acting Managing Director, NPA, Mohammed Bello-Koko assured that the agency is ready to play its part to ensure the smooth take-off of port operations upon completion of construction. He disclosed that NPA has commenced the process of acquiring all necessary marine equipment including, tug boats and mooring boats.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .