 [FILES] Osinbajo  In what seemed like a power game, the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo and Chief of Staff to the President, Ambassador Ibrahim Gambari, categorically declared that they were representing the president. The mild drama ensued when the master of ceremonies invited to the podium, Ambassador Gambari to deliver a goodwill message in his capacity as the maternal uncle to the emir. The entire audience was, however, surprised when Gambari announced he was delivering his message on behalf of the presidency. It was unimaginable to many, especially as the MC had earlier introduced the vice president as an emissary of the president. Gambari, congratulating the new emir, was confident that Emir Aminu would exhibit leadership quality and competence as demonstrated by his late father. On his part, Osinbajo reminded the monarch of the huge task ahead of him, admonishing him to endeavor to run an inclusive traditional system. “Your late father was known for his wisdom, courage and integrity. He loved his people and served them with honor and complete commitment, you have a good inheritance and a difficult task to accomplish. “But we are confident that by the grace of God, you will accomplish the task. As you ascend the throne of your forefathers, carry the trust of your people. I pray Almighty God will be merciful to you and the land will prosper during your rein.” On his part, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje charged Aminu to make good use of his position to promote peace and unity, while warning him to constantly distance himself from anything capable of tarnishing the revered throne. In his acceptance speech shortly after taking the oath of office and traditional rites, Aminu tasked leaders at all levels to deliver their entrusted responsibilities with the fear of God. The monarch, who reiterated his readiness to preside on the throne of his forefathers with total dedication, urged his district heads and other traditional title holders in Kano to brace up for the task ahead. The coronation ceremony attracted prominent personalities including governors, ministers, traditional rulers, captains of industries, members of the diplomatic corps and others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .