 Ogunwale  For these sterling qualities and more, the drums were recently rolled out, at his prompting, to welcome decampees from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Boripe Local Council Area in Osun State. And fittingly, Ogunwale’s Iragbiji country home, venue of the event, was jam-packed with well-wishers and political associates drawn across the State. For record purpose, it should be emphasised that Senator Ogunwale has been a major financier of PDP in Osun State since 1998. He has, since 1980, been putting people up for political offices and offering services admirably to his people in Osun Central District in particular and Osun State in general. He has been a pillar of strength and cornerstone for PDP in Osun through thick and thin, spending his resources to keep the party afloat for many years. It is also an incontrovertible fact that Senator Ogunwale was adjudged the best Senator from Osun State between 2003 and 2007, in the course of his duty tour of the senate. It was an era during which he ensured that dividends of democracy got to the electorate transparently and on regular basis. It was therefore, a carnival-like ceremony when hundreds of former APC faithful in Boripe LGA on Saturday, June 26, 2021 decamped to PDP. In their various defection speeches, the former APC members said they were happy to be back home where their good fortunes lie. They described PDP as an all-embracing party where justice, fairness and equity reign supreme. The decampees described their duty tour in APC as years of leave of absence from PDP. The defectors said they trusted absolutely in the unfailing leadership of Senator Ogunwale and other leaders of PDP in the council area to make their sojourn in PDP a worthwhile endeavour. They promised to work relentlessly to give the PDP a resounding victory in the 2022 governorship election. The decampees described Ogunwale as a shining light for PDP since its inception in 1998, affirming that they resolved to team up with his leadership in Boripe as a mark of respect for his sterling political qualities of welfarism and large-heartedness. In his brief remarks, Senator Ogunwale assured the APC defectors, that they would not regret their action, as the PDP is large enough to accommodate them to enjoy life more abundant, just like the old members. He intimated the decampees that there is no room for discrimination in PDP as all members were of equal status. He enjoined them to go to their various units and wards and work hard for the success of the party in the 2022 governorship election, which is around the corner. The Asiwaju of Iragbiji admonished all PDP members to continue to play politics without bitterness and avoid confrontation in all its aspects. He stressed that PDP was for love and progress. The State Chairman of PDP in Osun State, Sunday Bisi, while receiving the defectors, assured them of unfettered access to the party’s good tidings and openness in spreading political opportunities to all with the fear of God. Bisi enjoined the new members to avail themselves of the opportunity of obtaining new voters card or re-validating same through the on-going INEC registration exercise, as that is their power to vote for PDP governorship candidate in 2022. He assured them that they would be accommodated in the party’s scheme of affairs, without let or hindrance. While the defection ceremony was on, the Osun PDP governorship hopeful, Senator Nurudeen Ademola Adeleke sent a goodwill message and felicitated with the defectors. Senator Adeleke called on all PDP faithful in the State to continue to conduct themselves peacefully and hold high, the untainted flag of PDP, which he said symbolised concord, friendship, amity, observance of rule of law, victory and true stewardship to the electorate. Adeleke assured the Iragbiji gathering that their labour shall not be in vain, while advising new and old members to go and register through the on-going INEC Voters’ Registration that commenced on June 28. According to him, voter’s cards remained the weapon of victory at the 2022 governorship election, in which PDP shall coast home to landslide victory through the affection of the electorate for the party. Senator Ogunwale thereafter donated branded vehicles to Ademola Adeleke Campaign Organisation as a token contribution to the success of PDP at the 2022 governorship election, promising to do more as his resources permit. • Olumide Lawal was Special Adviser (Media & Publicity) to late Senator Isiaka Adetunji Adeleke  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .