 AfCFTA  Six months after trading officially commenced under the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), Nigeria and some other countries continue to lag behind, having stalled the process to domesticate trade protocols in line with the implementation of the new trade regime.
   
With the rules of origin yet to be defined, Nigerian exporters and manufacturers are left in the dark on the next line of action as other countries take national positions in safeguarding local industries and expanding regional agenda.
 
AfCFTA took off on January 1, 2021, but some nations are yet to fashion out the rules of origin, which is the major aspect of the trade framework.
   
Though the Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations (NOTN), in February, unveiled trading requirements for Nigerian traders under the AfCFTA, while also identifying 89 items that qualify for preferential trade under the deal, the delay in domesticating the treaty remains a challenge for its operationalization.  He further called for the reduction of the infrastructural deficits, notable in roads, ports and cargoes handling, customs and administration requirements that directly affect the capacity of the economy to move traded merchandise within and outside the country’s borders.
 
On his part, boardroom guru and Chairman Emeritus of the International Chambers of Commerce Nigeria (ICCN), Chief Olusegun Osunkeye, stressed the need for more sensitisation among Nigerian businesses on the AfCFTA protocol, stressing that a lot of works are needed to ensure that businesses in Nigeria do not lose out from the accruable benefits of AfCFTA protocol. He wondered why a country that is a signatory to the protocol could expel businesses from other member countries without due compliance with the embedded protocol.
 
Osunkeye also expressed worries about the dispute settlement protocol as disagreements between private businesses among member countries  are seen as a disagreement between state parties.
  
He stressed that Nigerian businesses under AfCFTA, should identify and take account of winners and losers in specific sectors to see where there are political attractions and where blockages may lie in implementing national AfCFTA strategies.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .