   The lawmakers also implored the governor to equip the state’s security agency to enable it adequately protect the lives and property of the residents. At its plenary, yesterday, the House further resolved that the governor should call on the Commissioner of Police in the state to intensify efforts on security. It frowned at the spate of insecurity, condemning the recent attempt on the life of the legislator representing Amuwo Odofin II, Olawale Rauf Age-Sulaiman, during a political rally ahead of the forthcoming local council election. While the lawmaker escaped death, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), whose name was given as Kayode Samuel and who stood beside him, was hit and later confirmed dead. Raising the issue as a ‘matter of urgent public importance’, Age-Sulaiman narrated how he escaped death from gunshot. He said the incident occurred in Oriade Local Council Development Area (LCDA). “I heard some people making noise while the campaign was on and I called for calm but I didn’t know that there were some elements who came with another intention. “We were about going out when somebody told me not to go out and two persons stood beside me and right there I heard a gunshot and the next person beside me shouted my leg with blood-stains,” he said, adding that he escaped by the whiskers. Commenting on the incident, Rotimi Olowo, condemned the use of thugs to settle political matters. He also urged that security in the county must be given more seriousness through the establishment of state police. “The commissioner of police should investigate the issue,” he said, adding that politicians and other Nigerians are not safe at this period. While Yinka Ogundimu suggested that the governor should be called upon to protect lives and property by asking the commissioner of police to intensify efforts, Tobun Abiodun urged the people to desist from crime. Adedamola Kasunmu, who noted that with the increasing crime rate in the society, urged other Houses of Assembly in the country to start calling for state police so that the National Assembly would take it serious. In his contribution, Setonji David said those against state police are enemies of the country. Other lawmakers, who spoke, included Desmond Elliot, Kehinde Joseph and Rotimi Abiru. Deputy Speaker of the House, Wasiu Eshilokun-Sanni, who presided over the sitting on behalf of the Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, said the incident was shocking. He also commiserated with the family of the deceased. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .