 Gunmen. PHOTO:Getty images  Gunmen, yesterday, killed two officers of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) in Katsina State, after another gang kidnapped erstwhile aide to former Governor Isa Yuguda of Bauchi State. The officers, Umar Kankara and Lauwali Dutse, were killed by the bandits yesterday about 12.05a.m., at Kadobe village in Jibia Local Council, Katsina. But a gunfire exchange that followed the incident reportedly left several of the bandits dead, and others with gunshot wounds. A soldier on reinforcement, who was shot in the thigh, is receiving treatment at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Katsina, The Guardian was told. According to a security source, NIS has a base in Kadobe village where the incident occurred, and that the area is haven for herdsmen and their animals. Spokesperson for the Immigration in the state, Illyasu Kasimu, said he was not authorised to speak on the matter. He, however, promised to revert if necessary. ALSO, erstwhile Senior Special Assistant on Youth to former Governor Isa Yuguda of Bauchi State, Uba Boris, was kidnapped on Wednesday evening. It was gathered that Uba, who was also Director of the State Vocational Centre in the Yuguda administration, was picked up around CBN Roundabout in Bauchi metropolis about 8p.m. Witnesses said the abductors were trailing him on two power bikes until they got to Nasarawa gate where they stopped him and bundled him into a waiting car and drove away. The residents said there were gunshots into the air till the abductors zoomed off. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ahmed Wakil, has yet to respond to messages send to him till press time. Meanwhile, some of Uba’s associates confirmed to newsmen that he was kidnapped, adding that they were still waiting for clue to his whereabouts. MEANWHILE, suspected Boko Haram terrorists in an Amoured Personnel Carrier (APC) and six gun trucks attacked Katarko community in Yobe State, yesterday. Katarko, a farming and herding village, 20 kilometres south of Damaturu, had been attacked last March, and blocks of classroom and facilities at the Katarko health centre were destroyed. Confirming the incident yesterday in Damaturu, a Civilian JTF member attached to the community, Bukar Modu, said: “We were caught unawares this morning when the boys burst into the village through the Katarko/Goniri road. They chanted ‘God is great in Arabic’ and ordered the people to remain calm, that the insurgents were in dire need of food from the villages on the fringe of Sambisa Forest.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .