 [FILES] Seyi Makinde. Photo/TWITTER/SEYIAMAKINDE  A SOCIO-POLITICAL group in Oyo State, the Oyo Kajola Group (OKG), has warned the state’s chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to stop fuelling insecurity and lies in its bid to take over the state by all means. It maintained that no matter the level of lies and negative narrative being woven around the people-oriented government of Seyi Makinde, the APC would not succeed in taking over the state in 2023. The group accused the opposition party of being behind a larger percentage of security challenges happening in the state, noting that the party also specialises in blowing the insecurity situation out of proportion to gain undue advantage. The group equally warned the different desperate elements in the Oyo APC not to cause undue tension in the state with the party’s ward, local council and state congresses, stating that the desperation of the APC gladiators could spell danger for the peace of the state. A statement signed by the group’s Media Co-ordinator, Adebayo Ayandele, indicated that Oyo State residents had discovered the unholy secret of the APC, “which bothers on creating insecurity scenarios and then blowing such challenges out of proportion to discredit incumbent government.” HOWEVER, Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, yesterday, named Segun Ogunwuyi as his Chief of Staff. A letter signed by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun, confirmed Ogunwuyi’s appointment. The appointment takes immediate effect. A statement by Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that Ogunwuyi was in 2019 named Executive Assistant to the Governor on Investment. He was later appointed Director-General of the Oyo State Investment and Public, Private Partnership Agency (OYSIPPPA), following the passage of the law setting up the agency. As the DG of OYSIPPA, Ogunwuyi midwifed series of investment initiatives, including the Alternative Project Funding Approach (APFA), which has helped the state in the execution of critical infrastructure projects. Ogunwuyi, a former member of the Oyo State House of Assembly, was in 2015 elected as the member representing Ogbomoso North/South and Oriire Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .