 Mercy Eke  Share with us your growing up?
I grew up in Owerri, Imo State, with my family. I’m the last child of my parents; I was born and raised in my small village called Egbu, where I attended nursery and primary schools. I furthered moved to Imo State University where I studied Psychology and did some menial jobs like roasting of corn and selling fuel by the roadside to see myself through the university. After my graduation, I moved to Abuja for my National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) assignment. What are you currently working on or promoting?
I’m currently shooting the second season of my reality show, working on launching my M&M Luxury story in Lagos. I am also perfecting a plan to launch my foundation, The Mercy Eke Foundation. Tell us a bit about your stay in the Big Brother Naija House?
I went into the Big Brother Naija House with an open mind. I was very positive that I would win because I prayed endlessly for it even before I entered the house. While I was in the house, I promised myself one thing, which is that I would have fun and fuck shit up, because my story was different and unique. I auditioned four times before I was picked, so being a housemate was the ultimate goal, therefore, I had to enjoy every day that passed by. I had my high and low times, I met and lost some friends, I played the game in my best knowledge and I won the show. If you were to go back, would you do anything differently?
If I go back to the house I will be the same person because I was real. Maybe this time I will not have anything to do with any male housemate. What does fashion mean to you?
Fashion to me means a form of self-expression, confidence, wearing what you like, owning it and having fun with it. What is your style?
My style is playful, classy and sexy What’s your favourite piece of clothing?
Currently, a Chanel playsuit I just got. I can’t wait to rock it. Who are your style icons?
I have a lot, but Rihanna and Kim Kardashian are my top two. Who is your role model?
I don’t have one particular role model, but I love Linda Ikeji and Mo Abudu, and I look up to a lot of other beautiful women in the industry. What’s your favourite local dish?
Ofe Owerri, Abacha and Ugba What is your most cherished possession?
My house, the Lambo Mansion (Laughs) Share with us your happiest moments?
When I won Big Brother Naija in 2019. If you were given an opportunity to change Nigeria, what will you do?
I would do a total reform of the government at the centre, put genuine people who have the interest of the country at heart. What are your turn offs? And turn on?
I hate lies and I love money Who’s your favourite designer?
Currently, Dior
Describe yourself in three sentences.
A hard worker, a confident woman, a beautiful woman What are your hobbies?
Swimming, traveling and cooking What is your philosophy of life?
Live by the moment, be happy, and be true to yourself.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .