 [FILES] Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State PHOTO: Twitter  He stated this yesterday at the unveiling of the Rumuepirikom Flyover in Obio/Akpor Council. “For all of you queuing up for the governorship position, should hold on and let me finish my tenure. Allow my community to finish its turn. Allow us to enjoy our time in office and thereafter, you can set your own agenda when you come into office,” he said. In a statement issued by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, the governor also threatened to depose any monarch and leaders of Community Development Committees (CDCs), who attempt to extort money from companies handling government infrastructure projects. Wike warned that any monarch from Rumuepirikom and other communities in the state who summons contractors handling government projects to his palace to demand inducements would be deposed. He equally cautioned youths in the state against disrupting government projects in their communities, stressing that the era in which government overlooked such acts was over. The governor advised Julius Berger and other companies handling construction works to ensure implementation of the local content component of such projects. He noted that Rumuepirikom was less known for criminal activities, because the community leadership had enforced good conduct among the residents. Speaking further, Wike hinted that he would move the Slaughter Market to the Rumueme Waterfront, adding that that appointment into ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) would be done after unveiling the project. Wike, who declared that he would favour women in new appointments, particularly in Rumuepirikom, said when it comes to winning elections, no electoral ward in the state could match the voting strength of ward 9 in Obio/Akpor Council. Inaugurating the project, former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Onueze C. J. Okocha (SAN), described the Rumuepirikom Flyover as a crucial project that would offer utility services beyond the improved aesthetics and ease of movement it would afford.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .