 Tokunbo Wahab  Wahab, also Special Adviser to Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State on Education, gave the commendation while speaking to newsmen in Lagos on Sunday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the House on Thursday deliberated on two bills to upgrade the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Ijanikin, and the Sir Michael Otedola College of Education, Epe, to become a university of Education. In the same manner, the House also considered a bill to convert the Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu, to the Lagos State University of Science and Technology. Wahab noted that the proposed University of Science and Technology would have special interest in vocational and entrepreneurship skills development. He added that the new tertiary institutions are important because it is becoming obvious that the state-owned university, Lagos State University, is getting overwhelmed in relation to the admission needs of candidates. The APC chieftain noted that the establishment of the universities could be achieved faster and earlier than expected because of the support from the members of the House. Wahab, therefore, commended the lawmakers for supporting the executive arm of government in the state through quality legislation. “I must express our appreciation to the Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, and members of the state House of Assembly for the success we have achieved in education and other critical sectors. “Their support at all times and quality legislation have brought about the good governance we are enjoying in the state today. “We are particularly happy that the lawmakers have thrown their support behind the establishment of the Universities of Education, and that of Science and Technology. “This is in demonstration of the state government’s commitment to the growth of education and technology in the state. “I am confident, history of good governance will be so kind to the speaker and members of the great assembly, whenever we are reflecting on activities that led to a new Lagos of our collective dream,” he said. NAN recalls that the bills scaled second reading during plenary on Thursday and were committed by the speaker to the House Committee on Education (Tertiary Institutions) for further consideration.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .