What Your Hair Says About You Your hair is the first thing we notice when people see you, then your shoe. Your natural hair will only tell your history whether black or white and they are determined by genes and environment. In this article, however, you will see what your hair says about personality and this is basically through your hairstyle, length and colour. The fun part is that you can switch your hair personality at any time depending on what you’re “vibing” to at the moment. It is important to know that there are four types of hair:
Type 1- The straight hair. You have straight hair if it falls flat from the root to the tip. It is the most common hair type around the world. Type 2 is the wavy hair that usually lies between straight and curly. Type 3 is the curly hair, and if your hair strand has an ‘S’ pattern, straight, wavy and dry at the crown, the middle, and the ends, respectively. Type 4 hair is the coily hair that follows a ‘Z’ pattern. It is generally the type that most black women have. It is kinky, very fragile, and also the driest hair type. People believe that Type 4 hair does not grow long, but this is not true, it just requires more care and maintenance due to its fragile and easy breakable nature. The way you style your hair communicates much about you.
A side parting can tell that you are caring and would most likely be a good listener. You are approachable and your feedback is taken seriously in a room since you are honest and reliable. When you wear a weave, you show confidence at its peak. You are free-spirited and playful. You are also a people person and you make new friends with ease. If you adorn a high ponytail, you’re energetic and sporty. Even though this is not so much of an official look, you bring life into a room. It beats the age out of you, making you look younger. You are coordinated and an excellent time manager. Over to the length of your hair. Your hair’s length usually draws attention to you and long hair on you will mean that you want to appear attractive and you will. It can also show you are smart, eloquent and you make smart decisions. You love to help and have a thing with making a difference in your society. When you then cut it short, it says you’re artistic. When it’s medium, you’re being logical. A long bob length gives you the convenience of short hair while getting a length still long enough to style. You love speed and accuracy and definitely dislike stress. A short bob, on the other hand, is more professional in an office setting. You are a goal-getter and a risk-taker. What colours say about you
Colours radiate the beauty of your hair, and it is exciting to blend among the different colours. Here are what some popular colours say about your personality. Blonde shows you’re friendly and open to people, and definitely not shy because you stand out in a crowd. You want the attention you’ll get on a blonde since you’re outgoing. With black, some say it is just hair, yes it is, but for black women, it is more. It symbolises freedom and peace. You are independent and you act with class. You feel empowered with which you speak with great wisdom and conviction. Red hair women are passionate and sweet. You are a leader, a lover, and a dedicated friend. Other colours like purple, blue, pink, green, show you are creative and free-spirited. Your emotions are more like a rollercoaster and you find the beauty in everything. Now you have this information, develop a new love for your hair, explore and live your best life.