Goods worth millions of naira were gutted by an early morning fire on Friday in Basiri area of Ado Ekiti. The fire affected a food vendor’s store, a furniture showroom, as well as a workshop belonging to a tailor. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the incident occurred at the popular Textile Area of Basiri in Ado-Ekiti. The owner of the furniture showroom, Mr Seyi Lateef, told NAN that he received a distress call around 3.00 a.m. He said that before he got to his shop, the whole place had been burnt into ashes. “I was called around 3.00 a.m., on Friday that there was a fire outbreak at my showroom as a result of an electric power surge from a nearby shop. “I rushed there. But before the arrival of the Ekiti Fire Service personnel to the scene, the whole place had been razed down by the raging fire. “I lost two sets of chairs worth N250, 000 each, seven wardrobes at N50, 000 each and other pieces of furniture,’’ Lateef said. He appealed to the government and people of goodwill to come to his aid, saying he lost goods worth more than N1.5 million to the fire. Also, a 60-year-old food vendor, Mrs Justina Adefolahan, speaking on her loses said that she had lost her sources of living to the fire that occurred. “I am a single mother with three children to feed. What we all depend on for survival has been gutted by the fire. “I am also a physically challenged woman and I have lost everything I had saved over the years. “I am appealing to the governments and philanthropists to help me get back to my feet,’’ Adefolahan pleaded. NAN also reports that the midnight fire affected the shop belonging to Mrs Kemisola Olatoyibo, a house wife and a tailor. Olatoyibo said, “I started this business with the money raised by my husband and my family members. “I lost two industrial sewing machines, three other sewing machines and clothing materials worth N1.5 million. “I do not want to go into prostitution or engage in illicit businesses. I am appealing to the people and government to assist me,’’ she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .