 This photograph shows a TV camera over the main entrance of the Policlinico A Gemelli Hospital, in Rome, on July 10, 2021, as Pope Francis will lead on July 11, The Angelus Prayer at the hospital where he is recovering from colon surgery. – Pope Francis has been touched by the many message of support received following his operation, the Vatican said on July 9, as it confirmed his condition continues to improve. Vatican spokesman said the 84-year-old pontiff is eating and is no longer receiving “infusion therapy”, a phrase that typically refers to drugs administered intravenously. He will recite the Angelus prayer from his hospital room on July 11. (Photo by Isabella BONOTTO / AFP)  The 84-year-old pontiff underwent a scheduled surgery on his colon on Sunday and is recuperating at Rome’s Gemelli hospital. “His blood tests are satisfactory and he is continuing the prescribed treatment,” the bulletin said, adding that the pope’s recovery was following “the expected clinical progress”. “He is gradually resuming work and continues to stroll in the corridor of the apartment” on the hospital’s 10th floor. “In the afternoon, he celebrated Holy Mass in the private chapel and in the evening he dined with those who are assisting him during these days. “The Holy Father, experiencing first-hand the human dedication of the medical and health personnel assisting him, has addressed a special thought to all those who with care and compassion choose the face of suffering, engaging in a personal relationship with the sick, especially the most fragile and vulnerable.” Francis is in the same suite on the 10th floor of the Gemelli hospital used by Pope John Paul II — who also led the Angelus prayer from there in 1992, before coming to the window to wave to the faithful gathered outside. On Friday, the Vatican said that the pontiff would lead Sunday’s Angelus prayer from the hospital. It was not immediately clear whether Francis would lead the Angelus  normally delivered from the window overlooking St Peter’s Square in the Vatican City — from his hospital window or live-streamed from inside the suite.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .