 Ster-Kinekor, the official Cannes Lions representative in South Africa, along with Bizcommunity, online media partner to Ster-Kinekor, and The Creative Circle, invite you to book now for Cannes Trend Talks 2021 presented by Ann Nurock.  This year, the world’s most prestigious advertising festival, Cannes Lions went online for the first time and Ann Nurock and some of SA’s leading creatives, who were all category judges at this year’s festival, watched the talks by global thought leaders, analysed award-winning campaigns and identified key themes, to bring you their insights at Cannes Lions Trends Talks 2021 taking place online Thursday, 22 July.  Get the inside scoop on what’s really cutting through with audiences, as well as what’s steering the direction for local and global creative communities. – Cannes Lions  Find out about the 42% of consumers who make up the global Accenture study who said they would switch brands from providers who did not have relevant societal impact, and curated examples of the award-winning work with analysis. Ann Nurock presents her annual case studies, which show how creativity continues to be a driver in identifying and addressing some of the world's most urgent problems. “The work this year was really fresh, not because it was new, but because it was more human. Work that solved problems delivered a better ROI,” Ann Nurock, senior partner: Relationship Audits Management, industry advocate and Cannes Lions reporter. Book out 2pm-6pm 22 July 2021 in your calendar for this immersion session virtually together with your peers with Q&A sessions after each speaker. Cannes Lions Trends Talks 2021 Programme   Book now for this annual industry highlight proudly brought to you by Ster-Kinekor, official SA Cannes Lions representatives, Creative Circle and Bizcommunity (supported by the Loeries). Save the date and book now:
22 July 2021 | 2pm | R150 per ticket
Secure your ticket by email: cannestrendtalks@sterkinekor.com For more: More info: Cannes Lions special section  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Bizcommunity. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .