The Makurdi Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission  (EFCC) has arraigned the chairman, Benue State Independent Electoral Commission (BSIEC) , Dr. Loko Tersoo Joseph and eight others over alleged financial fraud of five hundred Million naira, (N500, 000,000). Others arraigned before Justice Abdu Dogo of the Federal High Court in Makurdi, Benue State capital are; Serki Mtomba Manaseh (secretary), Akange Akula(Treasurer) and 5 other members/Commissioners, Abe Aboyi Augustine, Donald Kertyo,  Agber Aondona Emmanuel,  Sunday Agbaji, and  Ekoja Daniel. The defendants were arraigned on a 23-count charge bordering on conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, misappropriation, forgery and  money laundering to the tune of N500 million. They, however, pleaded ‘not guilty’ to the charges . Based on their pleas, prosecution counsel, Ramiah Ikhanaede asked for a trial date as well as requested that the defendants be remanded in a correctional facility. But, counsel to the defendants, B. A. Iorhegh made an oral application, asking the court to admit the defendants to bail on self-recognition or in the alternative, grant them bail on liberal terms. Justice Dogo admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N 10 million each with one surety in like sum. The surety must have a fully developed landed property worth N50 million and must be working in Benue State. He must also submit two recent passports, photographs and original letters of appointment. The court banned the defendants from travelling outside Nigeria without the knowledge of the court and adjourned till September 28  for the commencement of trial.
Meanwhile, the commission has arrested a couple for allegedly defrauding unsuspecting victims in a N935m Ponzi scheme. The suspects, Emmanuel and Victoria Jaiyeoba, who were arrested at their residence in Ibadan, Oyo State, are parents to Adewale Daniel, Marketing Director, Wales Kingdom Capital Limited. The suspects, in complicity with their son, who is still at large, operate a Ponzi scheme in the guise of forex trading to defraud their unsuspecting victims. Investigation revealed that Emmanuel, who is a Director in Wales Kingdom Capital, operates five bank accounts and had received a sum of N18, 397, 913. 67 before his arrest. Further investigation also showed that the second suspect, Victoria, operates six bank accounts through which she received fraudulent transactions to the tune of N916, 607, 715. 48. The suspects will soon be charged to court.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .