 (FILES) In this file photo taken on July 04, 2021 Former South African president Jacob Zuma addresses the media in his home in Nkandla, KwaZulu-Natal. – South Africa’s ex-president Jacob Zuma handed himself in to police late on July 7, 2021 to begin serving a 15-month sentence for contempt of court, his foundation said. (Photo by Emmanuel Croset / AFP)  Police said in a statement Sunday they had arrested 37 people in the eastern province of KwaZulu-Natal and 25 in Johannesburg over the previous two days. In KwaZulu-Natal, protests broke out a day after Zuma was imprisoned on Thursday. The N3 highway linking Durban and Johannesburg was blocked for many hours, including a stretch south of Estcourt prison, where Zuma is being held, and 23 trucks were set alight at Mooi River. While some of the protests appear to have been triggered by Zuma’s 15-month detention for contempt of court, they are tied in with a sense of economic desperation as the country faces tightened restrictions under a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We don’t know yet what the strike is all about… but from what people have been saying it’s something related to our former president,” Sphamandla Ndlazi told AFP in the Jeppe neighbourhood of Johannesburg, with looted shops and burnt cars in the background. President Cyril Ramaphosa called for calm on Saturday, urging people to “express themselves within the law” and avoid destruction that could further cripple the economy. In Kwazulu-Natal, the police “had their hands full yesterday and throughout the night”, spokesman Jay Naicker told AFP on Sunday. “Criminals and opportunistic individuals” took advantage of the tense climate to “enrich themselves”, he added. Several stores were looted, including in the Durban suburb Mariann Hill. In Johannesburg, hundreds defied restrictions in two disenfranchised suburbs late Saturday, but their protests ended in violence, looting and 25 arrests, police said. In Jeppe, police dispersed a crowd of 300 who had set up barricades on a main road before looting businesses. Similar scenes unfolded in Alexandra, one of the poorest townships that neighbours the high-end city of Sandton, where nearly 800 rioters clashed with the police overnight. One officer was shot and hospitalised. The police said they “remain on high alert” in the two provinces. South Africa’s top court on June 29 jailed Zuma for refusing to appear before a probe into the corruption that entangled his nine years in power. But the 79-year-old former anti-apartheid fighter remains popular, especially in his native KwaZulu-Natal where he is seen to embody traditional values.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .