Porn Star Dahlia Sky Dead From Suicide After Battling Depression Adult entertainment actress Dahlia Sky was found shot dead from suicide after reportedly battling terminal breast cancer and depression. Sky, 31, was discovered with a fatal gunshot wound to the head in her car in California’s San Fernando Valley at around 8 pm June 30. Police earlier had said they were investigating Sky’s death as a ‘potential suicide’ while awaiting the results of her autopsy to determine the cause and manner of death. LAPD Detective Dave Peteque told Adult Video News there was no evidence to suggest foul play in Sky’s death. However, the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner’s Office has since concluded that Sky died by suicide caused by a gunshot wound to the head. Sky, who would have celebrated her 32nd birthday next month, reportedly had been diagnosed with Stage 4 metastatic breast cancer and was struggling with depression at the time of her death. According to the description in a GoFundMe campaign launched earlier this week on behalf of Sky’s mother, the cancer-stricken actress was homeless and had been living in her car. Colleagues in the pornography industry remembered the veteran performer as ‘a beautiful soul.’ JHP Films owner Hans told AVN that Sky’s years-long battle with cancer had taken a toll on her. He said:
During her last year, I spoke to her several times about life. It was not an easy ride for her. This will take a long time to get over if it’s even possible. Dahlia Sky, you beautiful soul, you funny, complicated, and warm-hearted friend! I am going to miss you so much.’ Sky was part of the adult entertainment world for a decade and had around 600 credits to her name, with some of her performances earning her industry awards and nominations according to Daily Mail. Stormy Daniels, the porn star who infamously alleged she had an affair with Donald Trump and was paid $130,000 in hush money, mourned Sky in a tweet. “I had the opportunity to direct many many talented performers during my time with Wicked,” she wrote.