 The Twitter Inc. logo is seen behind an Apple Inc. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg via Getty Images  While the country awaits the meeting between the Federal Government and the management team of Twitter to resolve the impasse between the two, findings have shown that the planned tax earnings from technology companies, especially Twitter might not really be pronounced.
   
This is because contrary to claims that there are about 40 million Twitter users, findings have shown that there are just 3.05 million potential audience that Twitter reports can be reached with adverts on the platform.
   
According to digital report 2021 by Hootsuite, a social media and marketing dashboard, Twitter’s potential advertising audience compared to the total population aged 13 plus in Nigeria is 2.4 per cent, while quarter-on-quarter change in Twitter’s advertising reach is 17.3 per cent.
 
The implication of this is that Twitter’s penetration in the country is still very low compared to other platforms. Analytically, it equally means that it is unlikely that these 3.05 million adverts audience would also be impacted by the American company.  MEANWHILE, the Twitter ban in Nigeria has entered its 40th day, with accruable losses to the country now in excess of about N96 billion. 
  
NetBlocks, a watchdog organisation that monitors cybersecurity and governance of the Internet, said each hour of the suspension costs Nigeria $250,000 (N102.5 million), bringing the daily loss to N2.46 billion. Invariably, it means the economy would have lost over N96 billion in the last 40 days.  In its 2020 SME Survey, PwC, a multi-national professional services network of firms, reported that SMEs contribute 48 per cent of national Gross Domestic Product (GDP), accounting for 96 per cent of businesses and 84 per cent of employment.
Citing a report of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the group says SMEs in Nigeria have contributed about 48 per cent of the national GDP in the last five years. It added that with a total number of about 17.4 million, they account for about 50 per cent of industrial jobs and nearly 90 per cent of the manufacturing sector, in terms of number of enterprises. This sector is the major casualty of the Twitter ban. Lydia Ume, a writer and digital content strategist, lamented the impact of Twitter on businesses, particularly the long-term negative impact of resort to use of VPN, which many businesses have been forced to embrace to maintain their online outposts. She said, for instance, measurement of the success of business strategies will be affected. She explained that one of the metrics used to measure the success of business marketing strategies is how many people see their content. According to her, the higher it is, the more likely it is to convert those eyeballs to customers. “Although VPN allows businesses to stay online, you can’t trust or accurately measure performance since the data is skewed from the location changes,” she said. “Your potential customers’ VPN might be set to Italy or San Francisco, so the algorithm reduces your content’s visibility to them because they are not considered your ideal audience. It’s not just social media, a lot of digital experiences are customised based on your location.” “Additionally,” she said, “digitisation helps to level the playing field, especially in a country that claims small businesses are the backbone of the economy. Social media plays a significant role in helping businesses grow and remain profitable and businesses need that competitive edge.” Prince Nathan, a digital marketing executive, noted that before the ban, businesses could run marketing campaigns using accurate data provided by Twitter, decipher where, how, and who their target audiences are and how best to reach them. “But currently, with the use of VPN, prospective clients tweeting from Nigeria are shown as living in the U.S., UK or Somalia and that messes up the algorithm and your ability to pinpoint where your prospects congregate.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .