A suspect Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have burst three major inter-state drug cartels supplying illicit substances to some states in the north. They also recovered skunk and cocaine weighing over 843 kilogrammes and arrested no fewer than seven of drug kingpins behind the syndicates in separate raids carried out in Kogi, Nasarawa and Benue states. NDLEA spokesman, Femi Babafemi, in a statement said a cartel led by one Augustine Emmanuel, 45, opted to move its consignments through the waterways between Edo and Kogi states, in a bid to evade the frequent road interdiction efforts by officers of the Kogi State Command of the agency. The statement read: “They were, however, intercepted on Monday, July 12, at a Jetty in Idah, Kogi State, where a Toyota Avalon car with registration number: Lagos SMK 345 CG, loaded with 487kgs of cannabis and ferried across the waterways from Agenebode, Edo State, to the Jetty in Idah, was seized and the syndicate leader arrested. “In Nasarawa State, a team of NDLEA operatives had, on Thursday, July 8, raided one of the most hostile drug joints in the state capital. About 356kgs of cannabis and various psychotropic substances were recovered, with the arrest of four major drug dealers, including the most notorious drug kingpin in Nasarawa State called ‘Boogie,’ while his real name is Muhammed Umar. His drug distribution tentacles cut across Kano, Plateau, Benue and parts of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. “Curiously, some quantities of cocaine were intercepted in Benue on 8th, 9th and 13th July. The first dealer, John Aondosoo, was arrested in Makurdi on Thursday with 28.6grammes of crack cocaine and after initial interrogation, it was discovered that his supplier, Henry Ezeomah, would bring more supplies in the early hours of Friday from Obosi, Anambra. Indeed, the supplier was arrested last Friday with 29.17grammes of crack cocaine. “In another raid on Tuesday, July 13, the Benue command also seized some quantities of cocaine.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .