 Ojota  Sunday Adeyemo, known as Igboho, was billed to continue the rally for the agitation of the creation of an independent  Yoruba nation from Nigeria’s southwest region. Our correspondent observed a standstill traffic jam on major roads in Nigeria’s commercial city. In Berger area, the border community between Lagos State and Ogun State, hundreds of commuters were stuck in the gridlock. Many commuters resorted to trekking the distance as there was no end in sight for the traffic jam. In the Ikorodu area of Lagos, police personnel were stationed at Ogolonto. The gridlock stretches from Ikorodu garage beyond towards Mile 12 International Market. “They are looking for Sunday (Igboho) – that is why we’re facing this suffering,” Ibrahim, a commuter from Ikorodu enroute Ketu told our correspondent. “I have been on this journey which is supposed to be for less than 30 minutes for over one hour 30 minutes. It is just unfair.” But the story in Ojota area of Lagos was quite different from other areas our correspondent as police personnel were seen preventing a group of people from gathering. It is unknown if those people are part of the rally billed for Saturday. Earlier in the day, a group of people protested at the location. Some of the secessonists included women who dressed in white wrappers. Security operatives have since cordoned off the venue for the rally in Ojota. Lagos State Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu on Friday warned the secessionist group to refrain from the planned rally, saying it poses a threat to peace in the state. But a Yoruba group, Ilana Omo’Odua, said there is no going back for the rally. They said they have written to Lagos State governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the police to provide security for the ‘peaceful’ agitators. “We are not violent or killing anybody. All we just want is a country of our own where we can be protected and live peacefully without fear of our people being killed by armed Fulani herdsmen,” Igboho said in one of his videos. Igboho is, however, yet to make a public appearance since operatives of Nigeria’s Department of State Services (DSS) on Thursday raided his Ibadan residence in Oyo State. DSS spokesman Peter Afunanyan said two persons suspected to be Igboho’s guards who resisted the secret police attempt to raid Igboho’s residence were shot dead with ammunition and other items recovered from the secessionist group leader’s home. Igboho has been declared wanted by the secret police.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .