 [FILES] Seyi Makinde. Photo/TWITTER/SEYIAMAKINDE  The council, which consists of members of the Olubadan-in-Council, the various Ibadanland community monarchs (the royal highnesses), and the heads of family compounds in the state capital (Mogajis), gave the hard-knock at its meeting held at the Olubadan Palace, Oja’ba, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The council members, who accused the governor of running a one-man-show, a strategy described as inimical to ensuring a well-secured society, said while such strategy might not mean much in other governmental activities, the same could not positively drive security administration. The council members urged the Alajia of Ajia in Egbeda Local Council of the state, the local community where the governor hails from, His Royal Highness, Oba Nureni Yusuf, to call the governor to order, saying: “A ‘child’ must not outgrow his/her ‘father’ whatever maybe his/her position. They urged the various community leaders in the state capital to raise vigilance groups, comprising youths, in their areas of jurisdiction, maintaining that “what is unfolding security-wise in the state capital looks fearful and raises concern among the people and the reason all hands must be on deck”. The Otun Olubadan of Ibadanland, Lekan Balogun, while wrapping up the various contributions by members of the traditional council, appealed to Makinde to change his approach, stressing that his side-lining the traditional institution has not been helpful in the maintenance of security. He said: “We have nothing against the governor. We supported his emergence and want him to succeed, which is why we are calling his attention to what we perceive as a lacuna. “The issue of security needs a multi-dimensional approach and there’s no way the government alone can solve or handle it. As the closest institution to the people, we have crucial roles to play to ensure that the menace of insecurity is tackled and the more reason why there must be a collaboration between us and the government to avoid working at cross-purposes.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .