 Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu  While some ruling party gladiators say the demand from the southern governors for the presidency to return to south is in 2023 in tandem with the agreement reached at the formation of APC in 2014, some feign ignorance of existence of such agreement. The Southern Governors’ Forum (SGF), had said for the purpose of fairness, equity and justice, power must move down south after the expiration of President Buhari’s tenure in 2023.
  
The first major inkling to the agreement on rotation of presidency in APC was disclosed in November last year, when the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babajide Fashola, reacted to a statement from the National Deputy Secretary of the party, Yekini Nabena that APC is not concerned about zoning of the presidency in 2023.  Why controversy about zoning
ONE of the critical questions being asked after the 17 Southern governors’ declaration is why the issue of zoning is becoming contentious?
 
Observers are curious that despite  political differences all the governors agreed that power must come to south. Analysts say three critical factors seem to be responsible for the southern governors’ demand for power shift in 2023, which needs to be carefully managed to sustain unity of the country. 
 
They alleged the worsening state of insecurity, especially those traceable to the activities of armed Fulani herdsmen alleged to be perpetrating terrible crimes across the country because their kinsman is in power.
 
It was also alleged that selective justice under the current administration is eroding confidence of the entire south. The development seems to be encouraging some self-determination groups that are calling for secession from Nigeria.  In like manner, a former governor of Zamfara State, Ahmed Sani faulted the SGF’s position, saying the southern governors’ demand was not only unconstitutional but also antithetical to the tenets of democracy.    
 
But credible sources confided in The Guardian that President Buhari is not unaware of the southern governors’ position that the presidency must shift from the north in 2023.  
 
The president is said to be gravely worried about his personal integrity and what might become of Nigeria, if the rotation agreement is breached.
 
It was also learnt that some notable leaders in the north are seriously concerned about the future of Nigeria if the region decides to retain power beyond 2023.
 
They were said to have reminded their people, especially the NEF, how the north from 2014 insisted that power must move from the south to north, which led to the merger and subsequent victory for the incumbent. They are considering the implications of forcing the country to restructure, disintegrate or they should allow power to move to south for the next eight years after Buhari’s government.
 
To the northern elite, among whom are retired military generals, the opinion is that power shift remains the best option the north can embrace now, in the corporate interest of Nigeria.
 
It was also gathered that for power to move south is a done deal in the ruling party. It is sad that the body language of President Buhari will soon determine that but which of the regions to entrust with the presidency, is the source of concern for power brokers in the north at present.
 
Some of the northern elites that have spoken in favour of power shift to the south in 2023 include Governors Babagana Zulum (Borno State); Mallam Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna State); Abdullahi Umar Ganduje (Kano State); Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina State); and Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa State). How prepared is the south for 2023 power shift? 
Analysts are of the opinion that Southwest and Southeast will be the major contenders for the presidential slot in 2023 if it is eventually conceded. The South-south might express interest but the fact that the immediate past President, Dr Goodluck Jonathan is from Bayelsa State, might count against it.
 
The Niger Delta region currently has five states under control of PDP while governor of Cross Rivers State, Ben Ayade recently defected to APC. Despite the fact that Ayade defected, the region is still favourably disposed to PDP. The likes of former governor of Akwa Ibom State Godwill Akpabio, who is currently serving in Buhari’s cabinet and as well as Rotimi Aamaechi and Timipre Sylva are heavyweights but their influence may not force the zone into reckoning as per 2023 THE Southeast region may have a very good reason to advance for desiring to produce the next president of the country being the only zone yet to savour the position. Some analysts think the zone might stand a very good chance under the platform of PDP but it will find it a bit hard under the ruling APC.
 
The zone currently has two governors of the ruling party, Hope Uzodimma of Imo and Dave Umahi (Enugu), who recently defected to APC. The PDP also controls Abia and Ebonyi while Anambra is being governed by APGA. The zone has experienced and seasoned politicians like Minister of Labour, Dr. Chris Ngige, Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu and Senator Rochas Okorocha.  They have been very active in the ruling party since 2014. Hopefully, they will put their acts together for a good outing come 2023. Southwest is said to stand a good chance to clinch the APC presidential ticket in 2023. The zone currently parades experienced and seasoned politicians in the ruling party with five out of the six states under the control of the party.
 
For instance, it has the likes of Tinubu, Governor Kayode Fayemi, Fashola, and serving ministers like Otunba Niyi Adebayo, Rauf Aregbesola, the incumbent Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, and others it can present. 2023 will be a good time to shop fot the best!  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .