Ayoade Igbeyi Experts in training and development sector of the economy have canvassed policy measures that would enhance local capacities of respective human capital development organisations in the country. Essentially, the experts, under the aegis of Nigerian Institute of Training and Development (NITAD), explained that such move can enhance efficiency in service delivery of virtual operations, especially during the current COVID 19 working environment. Besides, NITAD pointed out that the nation stands to save substantial foreign exchange through effective stoppage of foreign travel training and development programmes, with the prescribed local capacity enhancement. The Federal Government had in the 2015 budget, outlawed foreign training programmes for organisations in the public sector. The ban was however not effective enough as public sector operators continued to sideline the rule, using assessed low capacity of local facilities as excuse. NITAD president and chairman of council, Mrs Ayoade Igbeyi, yesterday, in a statement, pointed out that enhanced local training and development facilities hold the ace in uplifting the nation’s economy on a sustainable basis. The release, which was the outcome of deliberations at NITAD’s “Gathering of Fellows” held in Lagos, recently, emphasised that the nation can not afford postponing efficient local service delivery in both sectors of the economy. According to Igbeyi, the country cannot move the economy to higher levels with cascading efficiency in service delivery, especially in the public sector. “In Nigeria, training and development have never had it so bad in our professional life time. Lay-offs, right sizing, work from home, operational budget cuts, new job schedules and new ways of measuring performance of employees who work from home are some of our testimonies of the changing tide in work places. Within a space of time, virtual meetings have become part of our working culture. “These changes in work places have become the ‘new normal.’ These new challenges call for extra efforts on the part of practitioners in human resources’ training and development”, Igbeyi said. “Given the imperativeness of human capital development to efficient service delivery, the government therefore needs to lend its support towards enhancing capacities of relevant local institutions, for sustainable economic growth and development.” Igbeyi added that NITAD has already embarked on strategic partnerships with various organisations within and outside the country, to promote institutional efficiency in the country. At the fellows’ gathering, the guest lecturer, who is also the Founder and Managing Director of MacTay Consulting, Mr. Tayo Rotimi stressed the need for stronger institutional framework in both sectors of the economy for enhanced productivity in the country. Rotimi also called on the membership of NITAD to create a synergy between old and new entrants, as a strategic measure for building a stronger institute. Towards this, he prescribed a retreat for effective harvest of new ideas that will move the industry forward.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .