 Kids playing at the event  Founder Cerebral Palsy Centre, Nonye Nweke, said that by default most children in the centre are in severe spectrum of cerebral palsy, adding that some children asides from having cerebral palsy are faced with some interfacing health challenges while others just are just affected physically. She noted that the centre majors on therapy, counseling, respite care, free accommodation and others. She however said there is a dearth in caring for such children with special needs. According to her, cerebral palsy is an incurable disability and requires a lot of therapy for the children’s growth. “The centre, located at Surulere, which has been in existence for 11 years was started in a bid to offer best care for my child, Chizimuzondu. “Dealing with my daughter, I couldn’t find any centres specifically for children with this disability, so I decided to create one,” she said. The centre is currently building a facility at Lakwe, to accommodate more children, and to allow for better services, and also reduce the wait list. National President, WON, Dr. Adesuwa Ogli, noted that the visit was part of the annual conference Cooperate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme of the body and the decision to visit the centre was informed because the centre has been neglected. “We have been to Ikate where we had vision screening for the indigents and today we are at the Cerebral Palsy centre to present gifts. “We choose this centre because it doesn’t come readily to people’s mind when they think of CSR or reaching out. What comes to mind is orphanage or old people’s home. So we looked out for a place where we would have more impact and touch lives,” she added. Ogli said that some of her members have been involved in the centre by rendering service to them over the years. She noted the need for advocacy on cerebral palsy as a lot of people are not aware of the centre or the illness. “Some parents can’t afford to care for the children because they need special care and the things they need may not be readily available,” Ogli added. Chairperson, WON, Lagos chapter, Priscilia Imade, explained that the visit was in line with the vision of the women arm of Optometrist to show care especially to women and children. She called for partnership from the government and private sector to provide adequate care to the children. Items such as Water dispenser, toiletries, drugs, cleaning agents were donated to the centre. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .