In Preventing Mother to Child Transmission of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), family planning, according to the First Lady of Taraba state, Barrister Anna Darius Ishaku, has to be considered as one of the most important measures. Speaking yesterday at a two-day training on Village Savings and Loan Association (VSLA) and disbursement of seed grants to mothers and caregivers of HIV positive children in Jalingo,  the state capital she believed that the number of children being born with HIV will reduce if the above-suggested measure is taking into consideration.
Anna, who was of the view that maternal deaths are caused indirectly by Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), admitted that HIV “ positive women are also at greater risk of dying from pregnancy-related complications than women who are not living with HIV. “ Impressed that the challenges being faced in the course of implementing the ‘Lafiyan Yara Project ‘ in the state are being addressed,  the inability of “some women and caregivers to pay transport cost to return their HIV positive children to Anti Retroviral Therapy (ART) clinics for follow up and treatment failure among some children” according to her, is now adequately being addressed. The VSLA, as gathered by The Guardian, has the ability to transform marginalized communities worldwide, by mobilizing local savings, which provides members opportunity to cope with emergencies, and as well help manage households cash flow, built capital and most importantly or crucially, rebuild social networks, solidarity and trust among members helping them stay out of debt. Optimistic that the gain from the business “is expected to cushion the transport cost for returning the HIV positive children to health facilities for follow up and support other individuals “she urged mothers and caregivers within and beyond to accept the place of the VSLA as an important part of their financial landscape .” Also on his part, the Director General, Taraba state AIDS Control Agency (TACA), Dr. Garba Danjuma, said the training of mothers and caregivers of HIV positive children is geared towards reducing the transmission of the ailment from pregnant women to “their unborn children. “ While encouraging pregnant women to always deliver in health facilities so as to have HIV-negative children, the agency in collaboration with partners, among which according to him, includes SHF, would continue to work around the clocks to halt the transmission to unborn babies. Certain how the agency has worked round the clocks to reduce HIV/AIDS prevalence from 10.5% in 2012 to 2.9% in 2018,  the agency,  as stated by him,  will leave no stone unturned in its struggles to end the ailment in Taraba. Earlier, the Project manager of the SFH, Aisha Dadi, said the training has become necessary in order to encourage and empower mothers and caregivers to always return back to the health facilities with their HIV-positive children to access the relevant drugs. The training which our correspondent noticed was organized by TACA in partnership with Society for Family Health (SFH) , brought together mothers and caregivers of HIV-positive children from the nooks and crannies of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .