 Okada  The state’s Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, who disclosed this at a media briefing, yesterday, said that the decision was made during the last State Executive Council (SEC) meeting. Ojogo, who warned parents and guardians to rein in their children and wards, also disclosed that the SEC had reiterated the 6.00 p.m. ban on commercial motorcyclists operations in the state. He said: “Enforcement will be carried out and nothing will be spared. We are not placing general blame on the okada riders, but the preponderant report of security infractions is linked to the use of okada.” He, however, noted that the “government is not saying okada riders are criminals but that criminals are hiding under the cyclists’ operation to perpetrate crime. Security agencies have been alerted and mandated to carry out enforcement.” He said the SEC expressed disappointment in the allegation by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on diversion of federal allocation for political purposes. While describing the allegation as marketplace propaganda, Ojogo said the opposition party should avail itself with the workings of government, particularly as it relates to the disbursement of allocation from the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC). “Council noted with dismay the needless outburst of the opposition party. Council noted and specifically expressed disappointment about it. We appeal to the people and workers in the state to disregard it,” he said. “The Council frowns at this mindless opposition. It amounts to a height of insensitivity for an opposition party to make such a spurious statement. They didn’t know the difference between how government operates and how a market place operates. “Not one iota of mischief will go unanswered as far as this government is concerned. We, therefore, enjoin the PDP to be critical and circumspect in their statements henceforth,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .