 Bello Matawalle  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has approached a Federal High Court in Abuja to unseat Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, for alleged unlawful defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Also slated for removal from office is the Deputy Governor, Mahdi Gusau. The request forms part of the reliefs sought in a suit, marked:	FHC/ABJ/CS/489/2021, filed in the names of two PDP members from Zamfara, Alhaji Sani Ahmed, and Abubakar Mohammed. Although joined in the suit, the deputy governor had reportedly declared that he was not going to defect with his principal. The Guardian learnt that the action was filed in anticipation that he would follow his boss. When contacted, defence counsel, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), said the application would be sorted out in court. “When we get to the bridge, we will cross it,” he declared. The plaintiffs contend that in view of an earlier Supreme Court judgment that the APC had no candidate in the 2019 governorship election in Zamfara, having not conducted valid primaries, it would be unlawful for Matawalle and Gusau to retain their offices while defecting from the PDP to the APC, thereby transferring PDP’s victory to the APC. When the legal battle started yesterday through an ex-parte motion argued by the plaintiffs’ lawyer, Kanu Agabi (SAN), Justice Inyang Ekwo granted an order of substituted service of the originating processes on the governor and his deputy.
By the order, the defendants are to be served with all court papers through the National Secretariat of APC in Abuja. Justice Ekwo fixed July 16 for a report of court papers on the two defendants. HOWEVER, the APC has assured its aggrieved chieftains in Zamfara of inclusivity and fairness. The Chairman, APC Caretaker/Extraordinary and Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, made this known in Abuja while inaugurating the three-man caretaker committee to run the affairs of the party in the state. Represented by the caretaker secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, he appealed to those directly affected by the decision to show understanding and consider it as a sacrifice for the growth of the party. Buni acknowledged that the decision to dissolve the entire organ of the party in Zamfara was due to the decision by the governor to join the party. Chairman of the caretaker Committee Senator Hassan Gusau, expressed gratitude to the Buni-led committee for the confidence repose on his committee and pledged to run the affairs of the party in an open and transparent manner.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .