 Nwankpo  New Frontliners
THE standard-bearers of the two parties, Nze Akachukwu Nwankpo (ADC) and Obiora Agbasimelo, are already stealing the show and appropriating the fascination of the Anambra electorate. They are also putting their new shine in the limelight to great effect by taunting the embattled big three, namely, APGA, PDP and All Progressives Congress (APC).
 
For instance, speaking to journalists in Awka four days ago, the LP candidate, Agbasimelo, an obvious allusion to APGA and PDP, urged Anambra voters to avoid political parties that attract attention to themselves through convoluted court processes and frivolous litigations.  What Happened?
PERHAPS, only people that have been following closely the undulating narratives of Anambra governorship would recognise where the rain started beating the big three political parties.
   
APGA, which had been enmeshed in leadership squabble, started developing complications when in the middle of the preparations for the governorship primary, a splinter group arose and announced the dissolution of the National Executive Committee (NEC), as well as the suspension of the two claimants to the position of national chairman, Ozo Victor Oye and Chief Edozie Njoku. In their place, Chief Jude Okeke assumed office.
 
Falling back on Court orders, both Njoku and Okeke organised separate governorship primaries that threw up two other candidates in addition to Soludo, namely Chief Edozie Njoku and Hon. Chukwuma Umeoji, thus investing APGA with the record of being the only political party to produce three governorship candidates for the same election.  Meanwhile, Jude Okoye has filed another suit at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, seeking to stop Victor Oye and Edozie Njoku from parading themselves as chairmen of the party and the court to rather declare him the authentic APGA chairman. PDP
NOTMINDING that it held parallel governorship primaries that produced valentine Ozigbo and Senator Ugochukwu Uba as alternate candidates, PDP suffered another image deficit, when the first runner-up in the primary that threw up Ozigbo, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, renounced the process, as well as the outcome of the straw poll. Okonkwo contended that from the result announced by the Committee led by the Edo State Deputy Governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu, “it is obvious that the outcome of that exercise did not reflect the wishes and desires of the people.”  “But even with that, the list of the statutory delegates kept changing with no explanation of the criteria used to exclude some hitherto approved delegates while adding new ones, some of whom are not eligible under the party’s constitution.
 
“Perhaps, the most blatant of the irregularities came in the collation of votes. For instance, a total of 218 delegates were accredited for the exercise. The tally of votes cast for the candidates, along with voided votes came to 201. “A full week after the primary election, nobody has satisfactorily explained what happened to the other 17 votes cast by duly accredited delegates. Okonkwo added: ‘We expect those who conducted the election to provide the answer to this obvious discrepancy, particularly given the razor-thin margin of victory of the declared result.” APC
THE All Progressives Congress (APC) national leadership is yet to make its position known on the controversy trailing the party’s conduct of governorship primary election in the state.
 
While the party’s electoral and appeal committee say there was a valid primary that produced Senator Andy Uba as winner, other 11 aspirants swear that there was no semblance of election on the June 26, 2021 scheduled for the exercise.
  
Under the prevailing circumstances within the big political parties, how it would affect voting preferences towards them on November 6, remains a wild guess. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .