 PHOTO: manny360  The kidnapping of the royal father, which was one of many in recent times,  occurred  barely three days after the kidnap of a pharmacist, Abdulazeez Obajimoh, the  Managing Director of AZECO Pharmaceutical Company at Ozuwaya  in Okene, Kogi State. The abduction of the pharmacist Obajimoh result in a gun duel, leading to the death of one Habeeb Anda and injuries to two others before the kidnappers escaped with their victim. An indigene of Eganyi, who spoke with journalists on the phone, said the royal father, who was alone in his car, left Okene around 4:00p.m. on his way to Eganyi community, but  was abducted  between Ebiya and Eganyi  by hoodlums suspected to be kidnappers. According to him, the kidnappers around 1:00p.m. on Wednesday, called the family of the monarch and demanded a N30 million naira ransom. The Police Public Relations Officer, Kogi State Police Command, William Ayah, confirmed the kidnap, saying the police command had deployed special squad to trail the abductors. He called on the general public to assist the police with information to enable security agents rescue the royal father. IN a related development,  two soldiers were  on Tuesday killed and beheaded at a checkpoint along Iggah-Asaba Road in the Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State. They were reportedly shot dead before being beheaded by unidentified gunmen at the checkpoint in the border town between Enugu and Anambra states. A top police officer , who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the gunmen were dressed in black outfits. He added that the hoodlums beheaded the soldiers and fled with their heads through Anambra State	. “The soldiers were guarding Iggah/Asaba Junction, the border community between Enugu and Anambra States in Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State when the incident happened. “Passersby who witnessed the incident said the gunmen were dressed in black outfits. They said they came through Anambra State and fled through the same direction. “The gunmen beheaded the soldiers and fled with their heads. “The incident happened around 3:00p.m.”
Confirming the story, the Director, Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, said the officers who died, were repelling attack by operatives of Eastern Security Network(ESN). Nwachukwu said: “Nigerian troops deployed to checkmate activities of gunmen at Adani community of Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State, yesterday July 13,  2021, repelled Eastern Security Network (ESN) gun attack on troops’ location at Iggah/Asaba checkpoint. Sadly, during the fire fight that ensued, two soldiers paid the supreme price. Troops are currently on the trail of the criminals. “We assure the general public of our commitment to providing adequate security in the general area in collaboration with other security agencies. We also urge members of the public to complement the effort of the security agencies by remaining law-abiding and provide useful information on the fleeing gunmen.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .