 Buni  Mala-Buni made the statement during the commissioning of one contemporary firefighting truck by the Controller-General of the service, Dr. Liman Ibrahim, on Thursday in Yobe. in a statement by the public relations officer of the FFS, Ugo Huan, Buni who was represented by his deputy, Idi Gubana, said that the firefighting truck was effective in complementing the  state government’s efforts. “The new firefighting vehicles will no doubt complement our efforts in curbing the damages of fire incidents,” he said. According to the Governor, plans are ongoing to drill boreholes at fire service stations across the state. “Procurement of twenty seven trucks, 1 ambulance and firefighting equipment. Renovation of the state fire service department office,” he said. He noted that with the establishment of a new market in the state, firefighting vehicles and equipment were essential facilities for safer economic activities. Mala -Buni however, requested for collaboration between the FFS and the states to foster training and retraining of fire men. “Such partnership could further enable our fire fighting workers with modern ideas in the discharge of their duties,” he said. Earlier in his remarks, FFS Controller General, Ibrahim Liman , said that the deployment became necessar following threats from terrorists and insurgents. “Fire havoc like the above factors has the potential of threatening the physical well-being of the population thereby destabilizing economic growth. The deployment of this truck was influenced by the Senate President, Sen Ahmed Lawan to improve firefighting and rescue in the state. Firefighting is the responsibility of all, hence the need for a robust collaboration between the Federal and state governments,” he said. “Inclusion of the FFS in the State Security Council and strengthening of the state fire service through recruitment of capable hands. The CG urged the state government to invest in sponsorship of personnel on trainings and upgrade of salary structure. Emir of Damaturu, Alh. Shehu Hashimi  said that the deployment was the beginning  of a milestone in the state. “We consider this as a development that will add to the effective running of fire service in the state, he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .