Pope Francis delivers the Sunday Angelus prayer from the window of his study overlooking St.Peter’s Square at the Vatican on July 4, 2021. (Photo by Andreas SOLARO / AFP) Pope Francis will lead Sunday’s Angelus prayer from the Rome hospital where he is recovering from colon surgery, the Vatican said Friday. “The Angelus will be recited from the 10th floor of the A. Gemelli University Hospital,” spokesman Matteo Bruni said, adding Francis was continuing to improve following last Sunday’s operation. The pope continues to “eat regularly” and has “resumed his work” just five days after the planned surgery for an inflammation of the colon, Bruni said in his daily update. The 84-year-old also spends time going for walks in the hospital’s corridor and reading, he said. The Vatican had said Monday that the Argentine pontiff was expected to stay in hospital for around seven days. Francis is in the same suite on the 10th floor of the Gemelli hospital used by Pope John Paul II — who also lead the Angelus prayer from there in 1992, before coming to the window to wave to the faithful gathered outside. The late pope underwent surgery at the hospital a number of times, including after an attempt on his life in 1981, and for a tumour in the colon in 1992. He dubbed the suite overlooking the Gemelli entrance “Vatican 3”, third in line after the tiny city state in the centre of Rome and the papal summer palace at Castel Gandolfo, outside the city. It was not immediately clear whether Francis would lead the Angelus — normally delivered from the window overlooking St Peter’s Square in the Vatican City — from his hospital window or live-streamed from inside the suite. The pontiff, whose temperature was back to normal after a mild fever on Wednesday, celebrated mass in the chapel of the suite on Thursday, attended by all those looking after him in hospital, Bruni said. Francis tweeted earlier in the week to say he was “touched” by the many message of support he was receiving after his operation for “severe diverticular stenosis with signs of sclerosing diverticulitis”. Diverticula are small bulges or pockets that develop in the lining of the intestine. Diverticulitis occurs when they become inflamed or infected. Sclerosis is normally defined as a hardening of tissue. The Vatican-owned paediatric hospital Bambino Gesu tweeted get-well cards for Francis drawn by children in its care. One, by a little girl named Giulia, showed her holding the pope’s hand as he lies in his hospital bed, and telling him “hear my prayer, as I heard yours when I was sick”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .