 Uzodimma  Uzodimma, who insisted that his predecessor had long left the APC, gave Okorocha the advice in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser, Oguwike Nwachukwu yesterday. Okorocha had through his media aide, Sam Onwuemeodo, on Tuesday, accused Uzodimma of blackmailing him out of the ruling party.
But the governor insisted that Okorocha’s recent actions, activities and utterances continued to expose his intentions to defect from the APC. He added that it was obvious that Okorocha would rather leave the APC than remain in the same party with him, having rejected the olive branch he had extended to him. “The truth is that Okorocha had long left the APC without the knowledge of some of his aides like Onwuemeodo “For a man with a history of junketing from one political party to another, discerning minds know that Okorocha’s days in the APC were numbered the moment he failed to foist his political son, Uche Nwosu, on Imo people in a bid to sustain his political hegemony. “If there is any politician in Imo APC, who does not want Uzodimma to be in the same party with him, it is Okorocha and he has not hidden his disdain for the incumbent governor,” the statement reads. MEANWHILE, Uzodimma, will today, unveil the South East Zonal Validation Exercise for the Country Self-Assessment Report (CSAR) of the African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) in Owerri, the state capital. This was made known yesterday in a statement issued by Nwachukwu, adding that President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved the conduct of the Second Peer Review, particularly the Validation Exercise of CSAR by the Country Review Mission on June 23, 2021. The exercise will take place in six geo-political zones and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The Owerri Town Hall Meeting, which will hold at the Imo Concorde Hotels, is expected be a gathering of critical stakeholders from the South East, with Imo as the host. Federal, state and local council personalities, civil society actors, trade unions, religious and cultural leaders, as well as the private sector are expected at the meeting.  Uzodimma described the meeting as another opportunity for the South East to brainstorm on their common interest. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .