 (FILES) In this file photo taken on November 21, 2019 Jacky Kulik, the father of Elodie Kulik who was raped and murdered in 2002, poses with a portrait of his daughter at the courthouse of Amiens, ahead of the opening of the trial of Willy Bardon, accused of kidnapping, confinement, rape and murder in the case of Elodie Kulik. – Willy Bardon on July 1, 2021 was sentenced to 30 years of criminal imprisonment by the North Assize Court of Appeal of Douai, for the kidnapping, rape and death of Elodie Kulik in 2002, the same sentence as in the first instance. (Photo by DENIS CHARLET / AFP)  An appeals court in Douai in northern France confirmed the earlier 30-year jail sentence for Willy Bardon handed down by a lower court in 2019 but, crucially, added a conviction for murder as well as rape and abduction. Bank employee Elodie Kulik, 24, was kidnapped, raped, strangled and her corpse then burned in January 2002 in Tertry, 20 kilometres (12 miles) from Saint-Quentin in the Aisne region. In court for the verdict dressed in a black shirt and with head shaven, Bardon closed his eyes as the verdict was readout. (FILES) In this file photo taken on June 14, 2021 Willy Bardon sits in the defendant box before the opening of his appeal trial, after he was sentenced in December 2019 to thirty years’ imprisonment for the kidnapping, rape and death of Elodie Kulik in 2002, before the Assize Court of Douai. – Willy Bardon on July 1, 2021 was sentenced to 30 years of criminal imprisonment by the North Assize Court of Appeal of Douai, for the kidnapping, rape and death of Elodie Kulik in 2002, the same sentence as in the first instance. (Photo by DENIS CHARLET / AFP)  But the victim’s father Jacky said after the verdict that as in the initial verdict “he (Bardon) did not succeed in deceiving anyone”. Addressing his dead daughter, Jacky Kulik added: “I kept my promise… It is the end of my struggle.” Bardon’s lawyer Gabriel Dumenil accused the court of ignoring defence arguments and said his client now intended to take the case to the Court of Cassation, France’s highest court of appeal. When he was initially convicted in December 2019, Bardon swallowed pesticide in a dramatic suicide bid in the courtroom and spent five days in the hospital. Before dying, Kulik managed to call emergency services and the harrowing 26-second recording was the key piece of evidence in the trial. Another suspect Gregory Wiart, whose DNA was found at the scene, died in 2003. But six witnesses told the court in the initial trial they recognised the voice of Willy Bardon on the tape. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .