 Ogoni cleanup  Deputy United Nations Secretary General, Hajiya Amina Mohammed, who made this known during a courtesy visit to the Federal Ministry of Environment in Abuja, said the global body would support projects to mitigate climate change in the country. Mohammed had earlier briefed government on the 26th Climate Change Conference of Parties (COP 26), adding that UN would support the country’s energy transition plan as well as build support on finance and technology transfer. She said: “The International Monetary Fund (IMF) would assist some countries, including Nigeria,  to recover from the scourge. We will also engage young people. “At COP 26, we are going to give priority to biodiversity, Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), infrastructure, food and environment. Both private and public sectors  to assist in developing a framework for climate mitigation,” she added. Responding, the Minister of Environment, Dr. Muhammad Abubakar, while welcoming the UN Deputy Secretary General, recalled her efforts in the environmental sector, especially building foundation on Ogoni cleanup excercise. Abubakar recalled that Nigeria’s NDCs were based on a five per cent yearly Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increase, which the country unfortunately wasn’t able to attain up to 2.5 per cent. “We will seek the support of United Nations in convincing the developed countries to redeem their pledge of $100 billion made to support developing countries to unconditionally attain their targets and eventually increase ambitions,” the minister added. Abubakar said there was need for the international community to thread with caution in the implementation of the NDCs,  based on the spirit of a just, equitable and inclusive transition. He, however, urged them to take into account the principles of common but differentiated responsibilities and consider parties specific national, regional development and realistic timelines for carbon neutrality To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .