President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Reverend Samson Ayokunle has condemned the abduction of 180 pupils of Bethel Baptist College, Kaduna on Monday by gunmen, noting that President Muhammadu Buhari has lost grip on the leadership of Nigeria, The CAN president also panned Buhari’s inability to tame rising insecurity. Ayokunle lamented that kidnapping and abduction are now a thriving business in Nigeria and it is almost becoming synonymous with the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. He asked the president to seek foreign assistance before it is too late. The CAN president said in a statement that Nigeria has become a wasteland and a land that is devouring its inhabitants in the hands of this present leadership and requested Buhari to summon all the security chiefs and cause them to explain why the criminals are operating with ease in Nigeria without being brought to book. Ayokunle observed that the situation in Kaduna has become quite terrible because Governor Nasir El-Rufai appears to be talking too much than acting and urged President Muhammadu Buhari to caution the governor. He warned that the story of these 140 innocent pupils of Bethel Baptist College, Kaduna must not be like the story of some Chibok girls who are still missing till date despite promises by the present administration in 2015 to rescue them if it wins the election. Ayokunle insisted Buhari must ensure a safe return and reunion of all the pupils to their families and others in captivity. “It is very evident by each passing hour that this present administration is just paying lip service to the issues of security despite the fact that provision of adequate security for all Nigerian citizens was one of the campaign promises of President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2015/2019 general elections and the major reason people voted for him was being an ex-military man, the administration has failed woefully to keep a campaign promise,” Ayokunle said. “As it is gradually becoming a norm in Nigeria, Nigerians were yet again taken by surprise to read about the news of the 180 innocent pupils of Bethel Baptist College, Kaduna who were kidnapped by the notorious Boko Haram Terrorists or bandits on Monday 5th July, 2021. “These are children of innocent Nigerians who left the confines of their parents in pursuit of education and a better tomorrow.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .