Nigerian Shippers Council The Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) yesterday, shut down the operation of Associated Port Marine Development Company (APMDC) over non-compliance with regulatory directives and other arbitrary charges. The cargo-consolidator had been issued several notices to address infractions ranging from charging in foreign exchange to non-compliance with approved nomenclature of charges such as transport adjustment charges, non-vessel-operating carriers, outright disregard of terms of mediation reached at NSC and unresolved complaints of over one and half years, among others. Mr. Adesina Sarumi, an Assistant Director in the Regulatory Services Department, led the Council’s team. Speaking shortly after the enforcement exercise, the Deputy Director, Monitoring and Enforcement Division, Mrs. Celine Ifeora, said the NSC sealed APMDC’s premises following its non-compliance with Council’s directive as Port Economic Regulator. Ifeora disclosed that NSC had invited APMDC for meetings to resolve the issues but they refused to honour the invitations. NSC, she said, was left with no choice but to carry out the enforcement by sealing APMDC’s premises. She added that the APMDC would remain closed until the issues are addressed. Ifeora said: “They don’t want to listen to any agency representing government. That is why we went out today to carry out the enforcement exercise on APMDC. Two warnings letters have been forwarded asking them not to introduce new tariffs and charges without the consent of government but they refused to comply and rather they introduced another new tariff heading.” Also speaking on the issue, Sarumi, who led the enforcement team, said the enforcement exercise was informed by the need to address anomalies at APMDC. These, he said, revolved around issues such as the introduction of charges not approved by Council, making of payments in dollars on services rendered in Nigeria, among others. Alhaji Bashir Ambi of Complaints Unit following the enforcement exercise said that the unit has received series of complaints from the users of the services of APMDC. All efforts to speak with APMDC, proved abortive.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .