The Lagos State government has engaged a higher gear in its bid to bolster technology development and bring youths up to speed in technology entrepreneurship. With substantial cash backing already on the table, as well as partnership deals with Facebook, Google and homegrown clusters in Lagos metropolis, the new adventure will be worth the while economically. BENJAMIN ALADE reports. As the saying goes, whatever has a beginning must have an end. Perhaps, one of those transient entities with an expiry date around the corner is crude oil. Though a mainstay of some economies around the world, oil is fast losing its appeal to cheaper, cleaner sources of energy, with innovations in wind, solar, biofuel and electric cars all lined up as ready alternatives. However, with the loss in demand comes the loss in mega earnings - a major worry for oil-dependent economies.
 
Saudi Arabia, just like the United Arab Emirates (UAE), is a city built on petrodollars. The government, which has one of the largest oil reserves globally, is fast thinking of life after oil; opening up to non-religious tourists for the first time.
 
The austere kingdom has said it is opening up to holidaymakers as part of a push to diversify its economy away from oil.
 
The new visa programme for citizens of 49 countries, including the United Kingdom, and the United States, which was announced by Saudi tourism officials, was quickly followed by a Twitter campaign exhorting users to @VisitSaudiNow. As part of the scheme, which promises to deliver a visa in seven minutes, female tourists will be exempted from wearing the all-covering abaya robe, but will be required to dress “modestly.”
 
The United Arab Emirates, apparently thinking of a world without oil too, is leveraging on technology, with clear-cut strategic visions and institutional frameworks.
 
This includes the creation of the UAE Council for the Fourth Industrial Revolution; the Emirates Scientists Council; the Ministry of Artificial Intelligence, and the Mohamed Bin Zayed University of Artificial Intelligence.

Lagos Opts For Tech Prominence
MUCH like Dubai, Lagos is also mulling what happens when the oil receipts stop. Under the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration, the economic nerve-centre of the country and the fifth largest economy on the continent is reshaping developmental policies to anchor technology and its development.  The tech ecosystem, which will be sited in Yaba, is being developed in collaboration with Facebook and Google. 
 
Sanwo-Olu made the disclosure when he toured two major innovation and technology hubs within the state, accompanied by members of the state’s executive council, including the Commissioner for Science and Technology, Hakeem Fahm, and the Special Adviser on Innovation and Technology, Olatunbosun Alake. The tour took the governor and his team to Venia Hub in Lekki, and Impact Hub in Ikoyi, where he met startups in the ecosystems for a roundtable discussion on expanding funding opportunities and infrastructure development.
 
The mega cluster facility is part of the THEMES agenda under education and technology, which focuses on the expansion of technology infrastructure, and the tech space to accommodate more startups.
 
For Sanwo-Olu, technology and ‘the big data’ are “the new oil” for Lagos megacity to exponentially generate wealth and jobs for its young population, while also leveraging in raising the status of the state to attain the Fourth Industrial Revolution.  
 
Indeed, there is a general expectation that the global economy will be predominantly shaped by the unprecedented knowledge and technological innovations that the world is experiencing today.  KITE, Smart City, For All
APPARENTLY in tune with the task ahead, and the demands that it entails, Sanwo-Olu said the Yaba Technology Cluster – a centre for Knowledge, Innovation, Technology and Entrepreneurship (KITE), would be a free zone that would allow the growth of funding and financing for innovative ideas generated by entrepreneurs in the tech industry and FinTech space.
 
“Technology is the new oil and the basic element for the Fourth Industrial Revolution globally. As a state with a massive population of young people, we need to play a major role in the development of technology, which is an enabler to leapfrog into rapid socio-economic growth. We take technology as an important deliverable in our government’s development agenda.  Fahm, the commissioner for science and technology explained that the programme readily aligns with the ongoing laying of 3, 000 km fibre metro network cables and broadband infrastructure across the state, which is part of the government’s comprehensive smart city programme aimed at running a 24-hour economy in Lagos.  Support For Homegrown Clusters, Tech-savvy Youths
DURING the visit, Sanwo-Olu had a roundtable discussion with some of the startups to communicate the state’s effort and how better the government could properly channel its interventions in the sector.
 
Some of the startups – Uwana Energy, GRICD, Agrohuskwares, Gasmonkey among others – had the opportunity to present their business models and innovative solutions to the government’s team. The engagement also opened the governor and his team to possible areas of intervention, as most of the startups appealed to him to create loans and grants opportunities for them to achieve optimal productivity in the tech space.
 
The Executive Secretary, LSETF, Teju Abisoye, said the agency had been providing support for over 38 partner hubs across Local Government Areas (LGAs), and Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) in the state, stressing that the objective of the funding was to support startups from idea to exit stages.
 
The Commissioner for Tourism and Culture, Uzamat Akinbile Yussuf, commended the governor for his support to the Lagos State Creative Industry Initiative (LACI), Creative Lagos, and her ministry. Yussuf informed beneficiaries of the programme that the state government has very high expectations from them, adding that it was the confidence reposed in them that led to them being sponsored to the Del York Creative Academy. These beneficiaries are from across the 20 Local Government Areas (LGASs), and the 57 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) of the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .