CEO OBN Academy , Obinna Ekezie , middle and Wife displaying the summer camp Basketball teams  PHOTO: Alex Monye Organised Basketball Network Academy (OBN) has launched an online coaching platform tagged, OBNLive 360, as part of its efforts to ensure youths from across the country benefit from the academy’s programmes. Speaking at the unveiling of the online platform at the Academy’s Ogombo Road Ajah, Lekki Lagos headquarters, former NBA star, Obinna Ekezie, who is the promoter of the academy, said the online platform was initiated to also reach out to talented young players at the grassroots, who don’t have the opportunity to get standard coaching that would make them international stars. At the programme attended by parents and students of the academy, the project launched OBN Summer Hoop Summit, a basketball grooming championship for youths and students slated to hold from July 19 to the end of September. Speaking at the event, Ekezie said, “the OBN Academy decided to launch the online platform (OBNlive 360) to give youths opportunity to learn modern trends of coaching in basketball online. “I discovered that by using devices online, we can reach out to more youths around the country by posting videos online every week, teaching modern trends in basketball training and techniques. The online coaching is also geared to discover talents. Every training at the platform is NBA standard. “If I had this opportunity, I would have been a better player during my days.” He disclosed that the basketball Hoop Summit would comprise 15 teams at the end of the tourney with talents discovered given the opportunity to get scholarship abroad. Also speaking at the launch, Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Education, Adetola Salau, commended Ekezie for the initiative, promising the state would work with OBN to develop children in sports and education. “When youths get admission into foreign universities, they ask the student to choose a sport of their choice to combine with education. “This means sports and education go together. This is the initiative Lagos State is working to build in the state. Education and sports help build the mindset of every child to be able to overcome life challenges and be more productive to the society,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .