 Valentine Ozigbo  The former senator for Anambra Central Senatorial District, Ben Obi and his counterpart for Anambra North, Joy Emodi, have berated Chief Chris Uba for seemingly sidetracking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leadership in respect of the governorship primary. Uba, popularly called Eselu Uga, was alleged to be in support of a faction of the party that recognised Senator Ugochukwu Uba, rather than Val Ozigbo as the November 6, 2021 governorship candidate of PDP via court orders. Obi, while reacting to the development, backed Ozigbo, saying: “We can’t take this rascality any longer. As far as we are concerned, Val Ozigbo has emerged as the candidate of our party. “He won the primary recognised by the leadership of the PDP and all of us in the BoT congratulated him.”
Emordi, who is also a PDP BoT member, said: “The Supreme Court has ruled that the party has final right in the conduct of party primaries.” Also, former Minister of Women Affairs and a member of the party’s BoT, Iyom Josephine Anenih, said those who aim at the party’s governorship ticket through the court, “are the sworn enemies of the PDP in Anambra State.” Anenih, who berated the Uba brothers – Chris and Ugochukwu, said: “They will fail this time around.”
IN another development, a coalition of Intersociety and the Civil Liberties Organisations (CLOs), has expressed displeasure at the rising cases of facetious and discredited court orders over the recently held party primaries in Anambra State ahead of the November 6 gubernatorial elections. The groups made their grievances via a statement issued at the weekend and signed by the International Society for Civil Liberties & Rule of Law, the South-East Zone and the Anambra State Branch of the CLO. The groups warned that the relevant authorities must nip the trend in the bud before it disrupts the forthcoming gubernatorial poll.
They condemned some disgraceful politicians and judges who decided to be alibis of the malicious and undemocratic litigations. The Intersociety and CLOs, which accused the Willie Obiano-led government of complicity in the indiscriminate litigations and procurement of court orders to stampede the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to alter the candidates for the election and eliminate threats, urged Justice Onochie Anyachebelu, the Chief Judge of the state, to caution the judges under his jurisdiction to ensure that the governorship election holds without rancour and acrimony. They also charged political parties to put their houses in order, play by the rules and entrench the culture of popular voting. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .