 [FILES] Ifeanyi Okowa  Ifeajika, who spoke with journalists, yesterday, at the Government House, Asaba, also refuted claims that Okowa came to power through zoning consensus, as being canvassed by some persons. He said it was necessary to put the records straight, so as not to mislead Delta people and other Nigerians. The CPS said Okowa had told Delta people that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would decide on the governorship issue at the right time, and thereafter, leave it to God to decide ultimately, as he could play the role of God. “That has been his position, so it is not true that the governor is opposed to power moving to Delta Central or any other senatorial district for that matter,” he added. Ifeajika, who also dismissed insinuations that the governor came to power through zoning, also recalled that people from other senatorial districts participated in the primaries that brought him (Okowa) to power. He insisted that there was no time in the history of the state that governorship primary election was conducted, as the exclusive preserve of any senatorial district. “In our records, primaries had been for all comers and people from all the senatorial districts always participated in all of that. “For the primaries that brought Okowa to power in 2015, we are aware that aspirants from the Central and South senatorial districts participated, including a former minister, who has been saying that zoning brought Okowa to power.” “Former Chief of Staff (COS) to the governor, David Edevbie, came second in that race, meaning that if he had come first, there was no way they would have asked him to step down and allow Okowa to grab the ticket on the grounds that it was the turn of Delta North to produce the governor.” He further insisted that it was not true that zoning brought Okowa to power, but his personality, pedigree in politics and the grace of God, adding that he has immense goodwill across the state. “So, we pray and ask Delta people to come together and at the right time, the PDP will decide who Okowa’s successor and God will guide them, as the governor had said,” he added. On Senator Peter Nwaoboshi’s defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its effect on PDP’s performance, he assured that it would not have any significant impact on party’s dominance in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .