 Akeredolu. Photo: TWITTER/ONDOSTATEAPC  Akeredolu stated this at the commissioning and handing over of the erosion control and road improvement works by the Ondo State government in Owo Council of the state at the weekend. He said flooding had caused severe pollution, decline in agricultural output and untimely death of children, noting that the intervention and completion of the erosion and road works had changed the situation. Akeredolu, who commended the Federal Government and all stakeholders for the effort, said the state government was equipping its Ministry of Environment with necessary tools to check the devastating efforts of pollution and other ecological challenges. Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Oladunni Odu, who represented the governor, said 3000km of flood-prone areas had been channeled and concrete standardisation of major towns roads completed to correct the situation in other areas of the state. President Muhammadu Buhari had during the commissioning of the project, expressed government’s desire to continue implementing policies that would help to address the challenge of Niger Delta people and make life more meaningful them. Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of State, Niger Delta Affairs, Omotayo Alasoadura, noted that the Erosion Control of Flooded Area/Road project was one of the Ecological Intervention Projects the Federal Government approved and executed through the Ecological Fund Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF) for the people of Owo and its environs. “The implementation of the project underscores my administration’s efforts for government policies and ensure that no part of the country would be neglected due to geographical location or political considerations. “The completion of this project shows my determination and sincerity of purpose in tackling problems affecting citizens and making life more meaningful for the people,” he added. Buhari further commended all those involved in the process, noting that the completion of the project would bring huge relief to the community, which had been affected by ecological challenges for a long time. In his welcome address, Permanent Secretary, Ecological Fund Office, Abuja, Dr. Habiba Lawal, who was also represented at the event, noted that the erosion control work was initiated by the late Oba David Folagbade Olateru Olagbegi to arrest the continuous erosion, flooding and other ecological challenges in Owo and its environs to avoid further environmental degradation, as well as loss of life and property.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .