 overnor Adegboyega Oyetola. Photo:  TWITTER/GBOYEGAOYETOLA  Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, yesterday, urged religious institutions to promote and strengthen moral standard among the populace. This, the governor stressed, would form part of efforts at salvaging the country from its present socio-economic and religious woes, among others. He said all hands must be on deck to arrest moral decadence in the society, noting that national development and nation-building remain the duty of all. Oyetola also urged societal reforms in line with moral standard, which he said, remain the panacea to the nation’s socio-economic and religious woes. He warned that religious intolerance is injurious to the unity and collective peace of the country, stressing that as people, Nigerians must respect the country’s diversity. The governor, who spoke at the 60th anniversary thanksgiving service of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Liberation Cathedral, Osun Province I, held at the church premises at Alekunwodo area in Osogbo, said his administration had demonstrated capacity to be just and fair to all regardless of political or religious leanings, adding that he had ensured equitable distribution of services and infrastructure since he assumed office. He described organised institutions as opinion moulders responsible for moulding the moral profile of the society.
EARLIER in his homily, the Pastor of the Church, Oluwajobi Olajide, commended the governor for his faith in God and for putting Him first in everything he does. MEANWHILE, Oyetola has launched mass production, promotion and marketing of ‘Adire Osun’, a local fabric that he made compulsory for all workers in the state to wear. He said all the public and civil servants in the state would wear the local fabric every Thursday of the week. The governor said that the initiative was in furtherance of his administration’s efforts to preserve and promote the production of ‘Adire Osun’ as well as bolster the image of Osun as a culturally correct and indigenous product-inclined state. He said the International Fashion Week and the launch of Adire Osun were giant strides towards diversifying the state’s economy and creating jobs for the teeming youths. Oyetola, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Wole Oyebamiji, reiterated the administration’s commitment to promote and project culture to the world in a way that will draw attention and attract humongous revenue to the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .