Akeredolu. Photo: TWITTER/ONDOSTATEAPC • Urges youths to thirst for political power
• Farounbi asks Nigerians to rise against creep dictatorship Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has declared that the country is in desperate need of a paradigm shift in ideology of what political offices should be across all tiers of government in the nation. Akeredolu, who frowned at the manner at which politics, devoid of ideology, was being played in the country, emphasised that leadership must be embedded with traits that the youths could emulate. He stated this, yesterday, during the roundtable discussion organised by the All Progressives Congress (APC) Ondo State Progressive Youth Stakeholders (ODPYS) at the International Cultural and Event Centre, The Dome, Akure, the state capital. Akeredolu advised the youths to thirst for power as it would not be offered to them on a platter of gold. While advocating that women deserve to be allowed to occupy strategic roles within party structure and governance, the governor maintained that the youths could reach their potential if they remain focused and work towards the desired goal. IN another development, media stakeholders in Ibadan, Oyo State, have berated the House of Representatives and the present administration over the move to amend laws governing the practice of journalism. Scholars and veterans in the media industry, who spoke with The Guardian, vehemently kicked against any law or amendment aimed at gagging the media space. An ace broadcaster, media avatar and former Ambassador to the Philippines, Dr. Yemi Farounbi, said: “It is tragic that in the year 2021, the people of Nigeria have to embark on a struggle against a deliberate act to truncate the right of the people to freedom of speech and freedom of the press. “It is sad that this is happening in a Nigeria, which struggle for independence, was largely fought on the pages of the newspapers. It is unfortunate that this is happening in a country, which freedom from the manacles of military dictatorship was solely fought by the media with some journalists losing their lives and property.” “It is more tragic that this is being done by a regime that was brought into power by a partnership that included the media, pro-democrats and human rightists.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .