Osarenren Emmanuel Okungbowa (right) is all smiles after joining Offenbacher Kickers. The defender is eligible to play for Nigeria. Austrian-born Nigerian defensive midfielder, Osarenren Emmanuel Okungbowa, has declared that his recent move from VfB Lübeck to Offenbacher Kickers in the same German 3 Bundesliga was too good for him to reject. He is also certain the deal will add value to his playing career. “I am very happy to be able to play at such an emotional club. This is exactly my thing. After they showed me the environment and the possibilities, there was no question for me whether I would accept the offer from Kickers Offenbach. “I want to get fully involved here and be successful with the OFC,” added the 27-year-old Okungbowa, whose parents are from Nigeria. Thomas Sobotzik, Managing Director of OFC Kickers, was so emphatic on the reasons the club signed Okungbowa, noting that, “due to his technical, strategic and physical abilities, Osa can be used very flexibly both in the defensive midfield and in the back row. As a so-called ‘late starter,’ the former top talent of the Rapid Wien talent factory made his breakthrough in professional football in the past two seasons. “We hope and count on Osa to be able to confirm and further expand these achievements at OFC,” added Sobotzik. Okungbowa played 31 league games for VfB Lübeck last season. Previously, the 1.89-meter-tall left-footer was under contract with Rapid Wien of Austria and Floridsdorfer AC, among others. Born in the Austrian capital Vienna, he played a total of 28 games in the Austrian Bundesliga and the second division for both clubs. Okungbowa joined Rapid Wien in 2010 from the amateur club Donaufeld. He made his professional debut for Rapid Wien in a 2–1 loss against Sturm Graz on 27 November 2016. On 18 January 2019, he signed for the rest of the season with Floridsdorfer AC. He signed for German third division side VfB Lübeck on a one-year contract in July 2020. Also known as Kickers Offenbach, Offenbacher Kickers, were founded in 1901 and last featured in the German first division in the 1983/84 season. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .