Former President, Goodluck Jonathan, has said the use of force and weapons will not tame the insecurity in the country. Speaking yesterday in Abuja at the 50th birthday party of erstwhile Minister of Aviation, Osita Chidoka, the ex-leader pointed out that the surging crime wave required the deployment of more sophisticated technology. He said: “With the level of armed robbery and other crimes going on, it shows clearly that bullets alone cannot solve them. “It requires top-quality programmes of government. It requires technology, it requires a lot to stop armed robbery and all forms of crimes, including corruption that we talk about every day. “Because it is difficult to stake a rule and think that that would solve the problems. “As you are killing armed robbers, others are picking pockets in the same arena, and that is the kind of society we are in today. “Things are becoming more complex with the introduction of IT that is now ruling the world.” Jonathan continued: “The day you (Osita) were born was the day armed robbers were first shot in Nigeria. It speaks a lot, very unique. Luckily you are not an armed robber. But gone were the days when armed robbers were being shot. “The celebration of Osita’s 50th birthday shows that he is a special person. “So, it is a happy moment for all of us. Osita Chidoka is a blessing to the nation and those close to him know him very well.” SIMILARLY, one-time Governor of Kebbi State, Saidu Usman Dakingari, yesterday, called on the political leadership in the country to robustly dialogue with security agents, the judiciary, traditional rulers, urban herdsmen, and relevant stakeholders for a solution to the nation’s pervasive insecurity. He made the appeal yesterday at an event organised by the Fulani Elite Forum in Birnin Kebbi. Dakingari noted that their deep involvement would reduce kidnapping, robbery, and related crimes. He implored the government to do more in educating the people on pressing issues. Earlier, Governor Atiku Bagudu Abubakar assured the people that in the next three to four months, insecurity will be a thing of the past. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .