  The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) and Nigeria Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ) have stressed the need for media professionals to enlighten and educate citizens to prevent the spread of the highly infectious Delta variant of COVID-19 in Nigeria. In an interview with The Guardian in Lagos, yesterday, NUJ President, Chris Isiguzo, said many people still live in conspiracy theories that the virus does not exist and some feel the vaccine is not good, saying that the role of the media is to properly inform the masses about the new variant because the variant is deadlier than previous variants. ALSO, Publicity Secretary of NGE, Eze Anaba, said Lagos State Government and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had raised the alarm, so, the media should provide information that would help people, especially observing COVID-19 protocols. The media should also provide information to the government on protecting both the sea and land borders. All security operatives should ensure that COVID-19 protocols at borders are maintained and adhered to. On her part, Chairperson, Lagos State Chapter of NAWOJ, Adeola Ekine, said the role of media in preventing the spread of the new variant of COVID-19 is to disseminate information to the public consistently about the causes, precautions, and preventions of the virus. MEANWHILE, the NUJ, Oyo State Council, will on Wednesday, July 21, 2021, launch its novel Journalists’ Estate located at Alapako Village on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ibadan. The ground-breaking event will be climaxed with an N100 million launch with one of the union’s patrons, Dotun Sanusi, the Chairman, Ilaji Hotels and Sports Resort, as a chief launcher, while a United States (U.S.)-based tax consultant, Dr. Oludare Akande, would be the co-launcher. The event will hold at the Dapo Aderogba Hall, NUJ Press Centre Iyaganku, Ibadan, by 11:00 a.m. The road networks within the sprawling Estate would be named after Governor Seyi Makinde and former Governors Ladoja and Alao-Akala and the late Abiola Ajimobi and Lam Adesina. Others to be immortalised with street naming are the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; the Olubadan, Oba Adetunji, among others. The event will also witness the NUJ 2021 public lecture delivered by the Editor, THISDAY Newspaper, Mr. Bolaji Adebiyi. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .