 Bandits. Photo: BBC  Armed bandits have kidnapped the 85-year-old Emir of Kajuru in Southern Kaduna, along with 13 other family members. Kaduna State Police Command has confirmed yesterday’s kidnap, saying that security operatives were in hot chase of the bandits to rescue the Emir and other captives. The second-class monarch was kidnapped alongside three women, two of his grand children, three of his aides and five others. One of the Emir’s cabinet members, who pleaded for anonymity, confirmed the attack to journalists, saying the bandits shot sporadically before the victims were taken away. The Guardian gathered that a day before the incident, the monarch had summoned a security meeting in his domain about a ploy to kidnap him, but security agents reportedly did not act on the information. Spokesman of the police command, Mohammed Jalige, said that security operatives were on top of the situation. SOUTHERN Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) has again called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly to save the people of Kaduna by pronouncing a state of emergency, due to insecurity in the state. SOKAPU, yesterday, condemned the inaction of the Federal Government in the worsening cases of insecurity in the state. According to a statement issued by SOKAPU’s spokesman, Luka Binniyat, the emir’s abduction “reinforces our call for the imposition of a state of emergency in Kaduna state.” AFTER spending 80 days in captivity, two nurses of Idon General Hospital in Kajuru regained freedom. They were kidnapped on April 22, 2021 while on night duty at the hospital. According to a credible source, the bandits collected N10.5 million, two motorcycles, five mobile phones and airtime worth N6,000 as ransom for the duo. “We received the good news on Saturday, July 10, 2021 that they have been released at Idon. But we’re yet to receive them into the family,” the source stated. HOWEVER, Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL) has given the Federal Government seven days to rescue the 348 abducted students in Niger, Kebbi and Kaduna states. A statement issued at the weekend in Owerri, signed by Olusegun Bamgbose for Concerned Advocates for Good Governance (CAGG)  and Goodluck Ibem for the COSEYL, also condemned the act of paying ransom after abducting students, stressing that other groups had indicated interest to ensure that the abductees regained freedom unharmed. ALSO, the Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has expressed deep worry over the ugly security situation in the country, especially Kaduna. Its National President, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, in a statement in Abuja, yesterday, noted that communities across various local councils in the state had come under unending severe attacks. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .