Nigeria’s rising star, Tokunbo Pedro, will soon join golf’s big-league currently dominated by players from Europe, the Americas and Asia. Pedro  Tokunbo’s father, Otunba Femi Pedro, told The Guardian during the presentation of sports equipment to schools in Lagos by the Lagos State Sports Trust Fund, which he chairs, that Tokunbo has been working hard to actualise his dream of playing in the world’s biggest competitions. “Tokunbo is a PGA Tour professional. He was playing professional golf in China in 2019 but in 2020 it was cancelled because of the outbreak of COVID-19. But this year and next year he is preparing for the Qualifying School for the USA PGA Tour. He is on course in his professional career. “Tokunbo is already a professional golfer ranked among the first 1000 players in the world and he is moving up. Hopefully, in the next two years, he will be featuring in the PGA Tour proper. You will be seeing him in the U.S. Open, Masters and British Open, among other top competitions.” The former Lagos’ deputy governor also talked about plans to discover and nurture young golfers by the Lagos Sports Trust Fund. He revealed that part of the Fund’s grassroots development plan is to build facilities across the state, adding, “We are looking for landed properties that we can develop into mini-golf courses for school children and young people to even get exposed to this sport. “So many talented children don’t have the exposure. If your parents are not members of Ikoyi Club or Ikeja Club, you cannot even get close to the clubs. We believe that exposing talented children to golf at young age will help the country to produce many Tiger Woods. “We are looking for a place where we can develop golf in the metropolis of Lagos. We know golf requires a large expanse of land and Lagos is already fully built up. But we are still hopeful that we will find the space. “We found a place in Festac, but we still need one in the metropolis, where we can expose our young ones to the game. There, they will be taught by professionals.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .