4 Health Benefits Of Eating Scotch Bonnet Pepper There are lots of ingredients used for flavouring and spicing up food and one very important ingredient is pepper. Researchers have also revealed that including pepper in our diet is very beneficial to our health due to its nutrients, vitamins, minerals, and antioxidant content. Different parts of the world have different classes and types of pepper namely; white pepper, Chili pepper, datil pepper, numex twilight, black pepper, Carolina Reaper, ghost pepper, Jolokia Pepper, Naga Viper, peter pepper, and so on. Scotch Bonnet, which is also known as Bonney peppers, Caribbean red peppers, flower pepper, Ata Rodo, or Fresh Pepper is a variety of chilli pepper. It has a unique smoky flavour and a fruit-like taste. In Nigeria, it is generally used in many dishes to make the food spicy. Hence, if you hate spicy food, it is best to stay away from this particular ingredient or use it sparingly. Below are some health importance of Scotch Bonnet: Pain Treatment
Scotch bonnet peppers can be used as a substitute for treating diverse kinds of pain such as; headaches, osteoarthritis pain, rheumatoid pain, painful diabetic neuropathy, and inflammatory heat due to the presence of capsaicin in them. Weight Management
Scotch bonnet pepper is an excellent source of capsaicin, which researchers have revealed to be capable of reducing excess body fat build-up. So, if you want to shed your excess fat, don’t forget to include a reasonable amount of scotch bonnet peppers in your diet. Reduces Cancer Risk
Since the capsaicin in pepper flesh has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, it is being studied as a cancer fighter. It reduces the growth of prostate cancer cells while leaving normal cells unharmed. Research also shows consumption of large quantities of peppers effective against breast, pancreatic, and bladder cancers. Prevents Bad Breath
To keep your significant other attracted to you, eating hot pepper powder acts as a disinfectant to the air you breathe out by improving the odour of your breath. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.