Boko haram We’re sending bandits to God for judgment, says COAS
Suspected Boko Haram terrorists have killed about 24 villagers in Dabna community, Hong Local Council of Adamawa State and ruthlessly wounded many during an early hour raid yesterday. Scores have reportedly fled their ancestral homes for safety due to the attack. A witness told The Guardian that the outlaws bombarded the community at the wee hours of yesterday. The District Head of Dabna, Simon Yakub, confirmed that 24 dead bodies had been recovered and that one person was seriously injured. He added that the terrorists burnt all the churches in the village. A fleeing villager (name withheld) recounted that the “heavily armed” attackers killed many people, “even many of us who were lucky to escape with severe injuries.” Also a source hinted that the people in Garka, the hometown of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, were not safe, as “about 18 dead bodies were discovered in the bush by military.” Confirming the incident, the 23 Armoured Brigade Public Relations Officer (PRO,) Major Sani Mohammed, told The Guardian that he was waiting for the directive of the army headquarters to release details of the attack. MEANWHILE, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Farouk Yahaya, has declared that many of the bandits and other criminals undermining the nation’s national security have been sent to God to answer for their crimes. Visibly excited Yahaya spoke yesterday after President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo decorated him with his new rank of Lieutenant General at the State House, Abuja. “Many of the bandits have been sent to God to go and answer for their crimes, and we will continue to do that,” he said. Fielding questions from newsmen, the COAS, pledged unalloyed loyalty and that of all soldiers and officers under his leadership to the country’s constituted authorities. He assured that the army under his leadership would be committed to tackling the deteriorating security situation in the country, adding that success was already being recorded, as the soldiers would leverage their tactical experience to defeat the enemy. “I pledge unalloyed loyalty, on behalf of the officers and men of Nigerian Army, and that we will continue to do our best to arrest this challenge that we have, particularly insecurity and other violent crimes. “We are already recording successes. We will leverage that and our experience in this job, and by the grace of God, we shall get there,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .