 Chief Mike Loyibo  Loyibo, who welcomed Delta Central 2023, DC-23, led by Chief Ighoyota Amori to his country home in Tuomo, at the weekend, said as the leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has a major role to play in the 2023 succession plan. Insisting that the DC-23 has a valid argument that an Urhobo should succeed Okowa, he told the Urhobo to be patient with the governor to give the headway on where the next governor should come from. “The DC-23 has a valid argument, but the Ijaw governorship quest is rooted in every Ijaw man. There is only one Shepherd and the Governor is the current Shepherd of the PDP in Delta State. “I am a follower and believer of Governor Okowa. The governor has told me that he is still praying. So, I appeal to all of us to be patient and wait for the outcome of his prayers, because I believe that the prayer will be answered,” he said. Loyibo  donated N20 million to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s charity and entertained about 3,000 Ijaw people in respect of the DC-23 and cutting of birthday cake to mark Okowa’s 62nd birthday. National Chairman of DC-23,  Amori, urged the Ijaw nation to shelve their governorship ambition and allow the Urhobo go for the position based on power rotation among the three senatorial districts of the state. Amori, who led prominent Urhobo politicians to Tuomo for the visit, said: “I have been in politics since the beginning. I was the General Overseer of the Chief James Ibori political family. Emmanuel Uduaghan and Okowa are my brothers from the same family. “I am not contesting for governor, so nobody should misquote me. We are how PDP will continue rule in Delta. We are not concerned about what is happening in the centre. Our concern is Delta and how we can maintain our victory in the state since 1999. “We know that all the times, people from all over the state have always contested the governorship position. But always, it is only the one favoured by divine intervention, based on zoning, that always emerged.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .