 [files] Fintiri. Photo: TWITTER/IDOMIYA/GOVERNORAUF  While declaring open the entrepreneurship workshop yesterday in Yola, the governor said that government no longer had the financial capacity to employ thousands of graduates churned out by schools yearly. Fintiri, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Prof. Maxwell Gidado, pointed out that it was government’s responsibility to provide a conducive environment for business development and the private sector’s responsibility to finance those willing to set up businesses. He disclosed that only 10 per cent of the people of Adamawa receive salaries from the federation account, noting that the remaining 90 per cent struggle to survive. “So, you can see the importance of this workshop to us. The participants will train other 210 women and youth. It is going to be a relief to government,” he added. The workshop, themed ‘Entrepreneurship for Sustainable Nation Building’, was organised by Kambu International Nigeria Limited, in collaboration with BOI, to train women and youths in smoked fish packaging, photography, art and crafts. Managing Director of BOI, Mr. Olukayode Pitan, who was represented by the Yola branch manager of the bank, Mr. Ali Salamanu, said the bank trained women and youth on entrepreneurship for sustainable nation building. He said the objective of the training was to reduce the high rate of unemployment and equip the participants with business development skills and financial management. The MD assured the participants that his organisation’s major agenda was to ensure that women and youths with good business plans were assisted with funds to enable them become self-reliant, and boost the economy of the country. In her opening remarks, the Managing Partner and Chief Executive Officer of Kambu International Nigeria limited, Mrs.Dabney Shall-Holma, said the training would not only boost the revenue of the state, but that women and youths would become employers of labour.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .