The Controller-General of the Federal Fire Service (FSS), Dr. Ibrahim Liman, had called on governor Yahaya Inuwa of Gombe state to support the agency’s drive to tackle fire emergencies in the state by providing logistics vehicles to compliment the firetruck delivered to the state by the federal government. In a communique issued by the public relations officer of the service, Ugo Huan, Liman while delivering the state of the art firetruck, said two logistics vehicles will be needed to complement the firetruck in the area of fire risk assessment in public and private premises. He said, “The truck will be converted to Rapid Intervention Vehicle with complementary equipment and gadgets for quick response in the event of emergencies.” Liman also noted the need for sponsorship of state fire service personnel in local and foreign training in view of emerging firefighting trends. He said the “Inclusion of the FFS in the State Security Council and strengthening of the state fire service through recruitment of capable hands as well as welfare enhancement package for fire personnel to that of paramilitary salary structure,” will boost personnel morale Responding, governor Yahaya said the state is committed to combating fire outbreaks and safeguarding the lives and property of people in the state. According to him, the state is ready to double efforts to assist the fire service at the Federal and state levels to ensure the safety of lives and property. “We can not avoid fire because some might come as a human error so we shall double efforts to make sure people are protected,” Bello said. “A lot of properties and lives have been lost in fire disaster but when efforts are made just to prevent these incidents, it will help to save finances,” he said. He assured the federal government that the newly deployed state-of-the-art firefighting trucks would be adequately maintained. “We are making a lot of efforts to open up areas with little road access to aid firefighting. We shall look for a good location for the fire service to operate from within the city centre,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .