 [FILES] Minister of the Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. Photo; TWITTER/RAUFAAREFBESOLA/OGUNDIRANDOLAPO  Oyetola is also looking good to the civil servants by paying their full salaries. Unlike the half salary payment that he inherited from Aregbesola’s administration, the governor has been paying workers their full salaries. Also, pensioners are saying they never had it so good in recent times because of Oyetola’s decision to pay their entitlements; although, this gesture is yet to go round according to most pensioners, as a handful is still being owed their gratuities and other entitlements, but they have hopes and confidence in the administration.
 
Oyetola is one of the few governors that are paying the new minimum wage to workers in Nigeria. This, political watchers contend, may also form part of records when he comes to ask for a second term.
 
Despite these little efforts, he is also not taking chances in the area of party politics and strategic mobilisation and campaigns for second term. Most of the activities that the governor attends these days now appear like campaign grounds as speakers, especially loyalists have been seizing the opportunities to galvanise support for their principal. The office of the Special Adviser to the Governor on Civic Engagement has been meeting with traditional rulers, politicians, community leaders and residents of the state in what it tagged: “Governor’s Family Meeting.”
 
At these meetings currently ongoing across the state, residents have been showering encomiums on Oyetola and praying that his second term dream would come true. At these meetings, Oyetola’s commissioners and other aides have been calling for the people of the state to support their principal to continue his good works in the state.
 
It has been season of endorsements for Oyetola. Leaders and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), from the Ifelodun-Boripe-Odo Otin Federal Constituency recently endorsed the governor for second term. Also, groups, APC leaders, members, workers and other stakeholders have endorsed Oyetola in a build up to the July 16, 2022 poll.  Oyetola’s impediments 
NOTWIHSTANDING what Oyetola sees as achievements and chances that could pave way for him to actualise his dream for the second term, there are some hindrances that he would have to overcome. Few months after his emergence in 2018, the governor came under serious criticisms both from the opposition and some members of the public, as well as fragmented members of APC over his style of governance, which has been giving them concern. They say he is miserly.
 
Some APC members who complain of poor welfarism since the inception of Oyetola have expressed displeasure and longed for a governor who is generous with state’s resources.
 
The crisis currently rocking the ruling APC is another threat to Oyetola’s second term bid. Some leaders and chieftains of the party said to be strong loyalists and former appointees of Aregbesola have formed a caucus, The Osun Progressives (TOP) with Aregbesola as the chairman, Board of Trustees of TOP. The group chaired by Lowo Adebiyi, a former chairman of APC, flayed Oyetola for refusing to conduct congresses across all levels of the party. Adebiyi, while speaking in Osogbo accused the governor of going against the party’s constitution by allowing Prince Gboyega Famodun to remain as the caretaker chairman despite the fact that his tenure had lapsed.
 
Adebiyi explained that the group was formed because the party was weak and the leadership seems overwhelmed. Adebiyi was suspended by the Igbimo Agba (elders caucus), of the party for forming the group and criticising Oyetola. Also, another strong ally of Aregbesola and former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in the state, Kolapo Alimi, was recently suspended by the Executives of his ward for allegedly working against Oyetola. A day after his suspension, the leadership of the party, nullified Alimi’s suspension, a development which, has further sunk the party into further division.  Defending the alleged absence of activities at the party secretariat since Oyetola’s inception, Akeju said the attention of the party had been focused on meeting the yearnings of the people of the state by the present administration.
 
He denied claims that some of Oyetola’s cabinet members were not loyal to him and stressed that formation of TOP was to distract the present administration. The commissioner said the delay in the conduct of APC congresses in the state was because the national body was yet to release guidelines for the exercise.
 
“I want to assure you that members of the APC are loyal to the party leadership. Oyetola’s cabinet is 100 percent loyal. It is just a distraction to the present administration. There is no point fighting the government you built. But the government remains focused.
 
“There will be congresses very soon in the party. In all the crises we are going to bounce back beautifully. I want to tell you that we are going to make peace with everyone who is aggrieved, to the extent that Aregbesola will lead campaign for Oyetola’s second term in office”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .