Eniola The Guardian reporter, Eniola Daniel, has been awarded the Torch Bearers of Press Freedom Awards by the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ). The award ceremony will be held in Abuja today. Other recipients of the award are King Solomon Ekhaiyene of Ovation Media Group; Adepoju Tobi, Kehinde Shonola of The Vanguard Newspapers; Isaac Ayodele of The Nation; Wale Amoo of The Business Day and Prince Bamigbala Ademola of The Scope News International Magazine. Others are, Sunday Adesanya of West Africa Business; Kayode Jaiyeola of The Punch; Abiodun Omotoso of The National Wire, Michael Otogo of The Economy, Abiodun Williams of The Nation, and Bunmi Azeez of Vanguard. Congratulating the award winners in a statement, the Lagos Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, through the Secretary, NUJ Lagos State Council, Tunde Olalere, stated: “The Lagos Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists heartily congratulates members of our great council, who have been nominated as recipients of Torch Bearers of Press Freedom Awards scheduled to hold at Sheraton Hotel in Abuja, on May 5, 2021, by the National leadership of the NUJ.” “This prestigious award has become necessary following acts of brutality, harassment, arrest, imprisonment, and assaults suffered by journalists in the course of their job. “The council, led by Adeleye Ajayi, felicitates these members, urging them to keep the flag flying and not to relent in promoting initiatives geared towards uplifting the freedom of the press in Nigeria.” It will be recalled that on Sunday, February 28, 2021, Daniel was at the scene of the demolition exercise of shanties along Apapa-Oshodi Expressway. While carrying out his duties of filming the exercise as a reporter, about six of the officers attached to the Lagos State Police command, led by CSP Shola Jejeloye, pounced on him, beating him black and blue despite showing his identity card as a Guardian staff. In the process, he lost some of his valuables and work tools. It took the efforts of some ‘good Samaritans’ to rush him to the hospital. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, however, pledged that the command was going to look into the matter and fish out the perpetrators, but till now, nothing has been done.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .