 Skales (left); Brand Manager, Rite Foods Limited, Boluwatife Adedugbe,  and   Idahams, at the Max Live Concert, powered by Fearless energy drink in Lagos…recently  Organised by Max FM 102.3, a Lagos based radio station, and themed Music Experience, with the slogan Party of all Parties, music artists such as Laycon, Ladipoe, Blackbonez, Skales, Crayon and others thrilled fans with spectacular performances. Revealing the reason it threw its weight behind the music concert, the headline sponsor, Fearless energy drink, revealed that it is part of a commitment to enhancing the growth of the entertainment industry in the country. The Brand Manager of the company, Boluwatife Adedugbe, said as a leading brand, Fearless energy drink likes promoting the growth of the music and entertainment sector, especially in making talented young artistes become megastars, a reason that prompted the support of the Max Live concert. “For us, it is about looking out for credible platforms where we can partner and define our footprint in the music and entertainment industry by promoting young acts to become superstars,” she said. Adedugbe further pointed out that the lion mentality of “I can, I am” of Rite Foods, which has led to the production of premium brands has spurred the widely accepted energy drink, Fearless, to identify with the hugely popular broadcast station in promoting entertainment. Mavin Records act, Ladipo Eso better known as Ladipoe, dazzled the fans with tunes from his much-acclaimed records, which earned him applause. He commended the brand for their sponsorship, of the concert, saying: “Fearless is a great brand in its market segment and I love what it is doing today, taking entertainment to an admirable level. I am glad to be part of a show sponsored by the brand.” Meanwhile, Charles Chibueze Chukwu who is professionally known as Crayon in the music industry and dubbed the new face of Afrobeats, displayed his prowess, as he serenaded fans with his brand of music; a blend of pop and native groove. The fast-rising star thanked the brand for aiding the concert, which he said brought some of the best singers together, to thrill the audience and make the evening exhilarating. Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) Season 5 winner, Olamilekan Agbeleshe popularly known as Laycon, ended the concert with a moving performance that kept both the live and virtual audience dancing. Other artists that graced the stage include Idahams, Ruger, Ckay and Candybleakz. Notable among guests and celebrities that graced the gig include former BBNaija housemate, Ike and rapper Vector. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .