 Charles Majoroh  He also called for more computer science courses,  creation of design applications by students and professionals to reduce importation of applications. Majoroh stressed the need for the creation of programmes to detect plagiarism of designs among students to eliminate the dilemma created by   technology on architectural practice The architect spoke at the NIA 5th distinguished lecture, themed: “A Dilemma of Relevance,” held in Lagos. Majoroh further said the society needs to see the danger in overreaching in science technology as well as lifestyle and its consequences and plans for mitigation. To enable professionals deal with the dilemma, he said the teaching process must seek the development of the mind of students from primary to tertiary levels. “Right now, this can be achieved through a new route of learning process, which will foster the right attitude of mind and styles of thinking.” This, he said, cannot possibly produce people with imagination, creativity, honesty, curiosity and the determination to get to the bottom of things, which are indispensable for successful intellectual and professional life. He noted that architects have abandoned the use of  timber drawing boards that carpenters could make and now pay attention to computer systems that uses  unreliable energy. He said the digital nature of applications has encouraged  downloading and plagiarising with little attention to creativity. In his remarks, Chairman of the event and the Diocesan Bishop of Lagos, the Rt. Revd. Dr. Humphrey Olumakaiye, spoke against the rising cases of insecurity and regretted that lip service is paid on handling the issue. He extolled the honouree for taking architecture profession to a greater height. In his welcome address, Chairman, NIA Lagos state chapter, David Majekodunmi, said the lecturer had spent his career, advising, nurturing and mentoring people in the profession in Nigeria and abroad, focused on speedy action and critical role of architects in the society. He noted ` that the building of effective institutions based on the rule of law is paramount. According to him, there is need to address the full range of socio-economic and political factors for lasting peace to tackle root. He said the Nigerian Institute of Architects has come a long way in internalising and operationalising tthis insight. Also, NIA President, Sonny Echono, said the institute had benefitted immensely considerably   from the honouree’s knowledge and experience, as he is a repository and custodian off the history, norms and tradition and a name that is almost synonymous with architecture in Nigeria. Earlier, the first Vice President and chair, the National Organising Committee of the lecture, Enyi-Ben Eboh, expressed hope that the lecture would inspire a new generation of leader in the architecture profession that will dedicate themselves to the selfless service, which the first generation leaders exhibited in the formation and nurturing of the institute and the regulatory body with a view to forging a united and formidable front in tackling the challenges of these contemporary times. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .