With just under a week to go until entries close at the end of 31st May for Canon (https://global.Canon/en) – a photography competition for enthusiast photographers – Canon Ambassadors reveal how they would tackle the theme of ‘Light in the Dark’. Emannuel Oyeleke (https://bit.ly/2TbZSCL) and Menna Hossam (https://bit.ly/2RSKhYt), CCNA Canon ambassadors share tips with aspiring photographers – whether it is emphasising shadows, experimenting with different light sources or shooting with long exposures – they’re championing creative, experimental techniques to get the winning shot.  Tip 1: Emphasise the shadows Known for his iconic fashion and beauty images, Canon ambassador, Emmanuel Oyeleke (https://bit.ly/3vu64US) from Nigeria pointed out that one doesn’t need to always light the whole scene as the shadow does its magic. Many upcoming photographers are often scared of using shadows as they want a polished clean look, and he notes that emphasizing on shadows is important. Menna Hossam (https://bit.ly/3vqzyTG), another Canon ambassador and an Egyptian fine art and fashion photographer whose imaginative work is inspired by myth, fantasy and visual storytelling, notes the importance of avoiding anything that's not linked to the subject, instead arranging additional shadow or lighting a plant so it casts a shadow on your subject, making the image more atmospheric. Tip 2: Experiment with different light sources With a competition brief like this, it can be easy to lean on traditional techniques and tools such as your camera flash or a lighting panel, but Canon Ambassadors highlight the power of experimenting with different light sources. Emmanuel (https://bit.ly/3fHOeHi) tells us that there are no rules when it comes to shooting in the dark, as it can be blurry or grainy, but with a few simple lighting techniques one can completely transform well-known landscapes. The darker it is, the more impact you can have with your light. Menna (https://bit.ly/3hWyJhv) points out that light and shadow are also critical parts. She recommends using a range of different light sources - such as torches, projectors or even bike lights - to create the right look and feel for each image. Photographing in the dark with this small, direct source of light she says, can be exciting because it gives you a dramatic, stylised look. Also, having a model in front of the projection distorts the image and creates a more abstract, interesting photo. As much as possible upcoming photographers should try to use unconventional light sources available in their environment to create atmosphere. Tip 3: Play with long exposures Both ambassadors note that painting with light is a great way to create landscape photos which look unnatural. One can either opt for long exposure or use drones as a great tool for putting light and colour where one wouldn’t ever normally see it in nature. How fascinating it is to see the red-light contrast against the deep blue of the night sky. To paint with a light source such as a drone or even a laser pen, it is crucial that you get your camera settings right. One could use slow shutter speeds together with flash and then use a laser pen to draw with light. A shutter speed of 2 seconds, with an ISO of around 100 and aperture at 11 creates these light trails. You can easily paint any shape or emphasise certain elements of your subject with this technique. You never know what you are going to get, just experiment. If you feel inspired by the Canon Ambassadors, there is still time to shoot and enter a winning image. Open until 23:59 GMT, 31st May 2021, enter Canon’s Redline Challenge (https://bit.ly/3yKnajm) by visiting here (https://bit.ly/3hYKYKy). You can find more top tips to shoot Light in the Dark from Canon Ambassadors, Youtube Channel (https://bit.ly/3fSDK88), @CanonCNA Instagram Channel (https://bit.ly/3wFDRuq). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Notes to Editors:
Terms and Conditions (for full T&Cs and details please see Canon’s website here https://bit.ly/2R0DXOm). Media enquiries, please contact:
Canon Central and North Africa 
Mai Youssefe
Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Rania ElRafie
Rania.ElRafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: www.Canon-CNA.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .