 Akala. Photo/WITHINNIGERIA  Former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala of Oyo State, yesterday, reiterated that the only thing that could give the planned local government election in the state credibility is for all parties to take part. Speaking at a radio programme, BOTTOM LINE on IBR, in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, Alao-Akala insisted that the All Progressives Congress (APC) should be given a chance to participate in the election since the party is not boycotting the poll. It would be recalled that the Supreme Court had, on May 7, 2021, said it was wrong for Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State to have sacked 68 council chairmen elected on the APC platform during the administration of the late former Governor Abiola Ajimobi. Before delivery of the verdict, OYSIEC had fixed May 22, 2021, for the conduct of the poll. But now, APC is calling for the postponement of the election to allow its members to take part. Alao-Akala said it would amount to illegality for the sacked chairmen, who were waiting for court pronouncement to have joined the local government election process before the Supreme Court judgment. The Ogbomoso-born political leader said: “I am talking from experience… For the election to have credibility, all parties must be involved. If they boycott, it is a different thing, but some people were in court. They were waiting for the outcome of the case before they could join the process. Yet, they went ahead with the plans. If you look at it very well, it was a sort of I-don’t-care attitude towards the court…” Meanwhile, the Igbo Community in Oyo State, yesterday, lauded Governor Seyi Makinde for running an inclusive administration. The Igbo community, which met at the House of Chiefs, Secretariat, Ibadan expressed satisfaction at the governor’s decision to appoint three of their members into his administration. Special Assistant to the Governor on Community Relations (Igbo Community), Kingsley Ike, who briefed newsmen at the end of the meeting, said the Igbos in the state have resolved to cooperate with the present administration in Oyo State to actualise the governor’s plans and vision. He said the meeting was aimed at discussing matters of beneficial interest to Igbos in Oyo state, adding that the governor has practically demonstrated that he is always ready to embrace people from other ethnic groups, as for the first time in the history of Oyo State, people of Igbo extraction are being appointed as aides to a government in power. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .