 Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee, Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Prof. Lanre Adeyemo (middle) receiving medical equipment from Pastor-in-Charge of Lagos Province 44, the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Amos Emovon at Idiaraba, Lagos  The equipment, which includes digital weighing scales for neonates and infants, pediatric digital sphygmomanometer with different cuffs, Infra-red thermometers, regular thermometers, suction machine, a pin index gauge and cylinder, a hand held pulse oximeter, a regular pulse oximeter, AED machines, multi-parameter monitor and ECG with pediatric leads, were donated by The Praise Vessels of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Lagos Province 44.   Speaking during the donation, Pastor-in-Charge of Province 44, Amos Emovon, said the gesture was part of efforts to reduce infant mortality in the country as the equipment would assist  doctors and nurses to do their work better. Besides, he said the gesture was in alignment with the strategic direction from the leadership of the mission. “Our father in the Lord and the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor E. A. Adeboye, commissioned all senior pastors to impact positively on our environment. “He created a new office, Assistant Pastor-in-Charge of Christian Social Responsibility. In our province, we have the office and through that, we have been running with the vision, touching lives within our environment,” he said. Also, his wife, who is the convener and Head of All Sisters’ Fellowship (The Praise Vessels), Mrs Temitope Emovon, said: “We can only pray that as we deploy the equipment for the use of the children, in the next 10 to 15 years, some of the children will be in a position to go back and say LUTH was the point of contact that RCCG used to give them a second chance.” On his part, Chief Medical Director (CMD) of LUTH, Prof. Chris Bode, stated that “anywhere in the world, it is practically impossible for the government alone to fund health and when you see countries that are doing well, it is not only the government that is responsible. Other groups like religious bodies and NGOs also assist.” Bode, who was represented by Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee of LUTH, Prof. Lanre Adeyemo, added: “We are going to make the best use of the equipment. We are Oliver Twist. We would appreciate if you can give us more.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .