 Ojo  Meet Imiesor Ojo
IMIESOR Ojo is a young female entrepreneur with a passion for gender equality and SRH advocacy. She is also a Pharmacy student at the prestigious University of Benin. In a bid to gain further knowledge and competency in sexual and reproductive health advocacy, she has participated in several certification programs, one of which is the prevention of campus sexual violence program courtesy the EU-UN spotlight initiative and WARIF (Women At Risk Foundation). She also volunteers with The Medvocacy Initiative and Girls In Charge Foundation, which serves as outlets to effect positive changes around her immediate environment and beyond. Childhood Influence 
Growing up in a family like mine hasn’t been the sweetest experience. Amidst all the disciplinary actions and strict upbringing, I can gladly say it has contributed to who I am and what I do now. What Inspired Me To Choose A Career In Pharmacy
My love for chemistry at the time (back in secondary school) made me choose Pharmacy as my course of study despite the fact that my siblings wanted me to opt for Medicine. Being A Sexual Reproductive Health Advocate
I was partly motivated by the negative impact that misinformation regarding sexual and reproductive health had on young people. Especially when a host of these consequences, which stems from uninformed choices, can be avoided by being privy to the right information. Educating And Sensitising People On Sexual And Reproductive Health
The cure for ignorance is knowledge (education). Educating the masses, especially young adults, is my duty as a peer educator and a Sexual and Reproductive Health advocate. By using every platform available, I’ll be able to reach out to as many persons as possible and educate them on the subject matter. Challenges Of Young Advocates And Entrepreneurs 
The inability to properly manage finances. As much as people credit a lack of substantial capital as a major challenge, the fundamental problem lies with the management of funds. Poor financial management will most certainly lead to the ruin of any business. My Five Years Goal
To become a well-established pharmacist, SRH and gender equality advocate. To be a woman that has come to the complete knowledge of herself; a woman of influence and power. Being A Student, Reproductive Health Advocate And Running A Hair Business
Time management cannot be over emphasised. Knowing how to share/manage my time has made my life a lot easier because quite honestly, the school can be quite demanding. If I Were To Be The President Of Nigeria For A Day  
Well, Rome wasn’t built in a day, but if I were the president of Nigeria, I would love to make changes to the educational sector of the country. The implication of poor/lack of education is devastating for self and the nation and its economy. Three Women Who Inspire Me And Why
Mrs Florunsho Alakija inspires me a great deal. Albeit her status as a wealthy and prominent woman, she’s a symbol of sheer doggedness and hard work. Most importantly, she’s a woman of God. She’s breathing evidence that women can achieve whatever they set their minds to, despite the odds.
 
Prof. Dora Akinyuli stands tall in that regard. She’s a symbol of integrity, courage and passion in the Pharmacy profession.
 
Miss Chioma Uzoma, even though she’s a colleague of mine, has been a huge part of my success story so far. She’s purpose-driven, likes to carry everyone along and also she’s fearless (whatever she sets out to do, nothing stops her) and that motivates me.

Advice To Young Girls Out There
Whatever it is in life you want to do, never relegate your education and the ministry of you to the background. Also, do not let people’s opinion of you validate/define who you are. And whatever it is you are called to do, just do it. Whether you’re scared, unsure, or inexperienced, do it anyway, because there is no better time to do it than now. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .