 Cynthia Chinule  Unnerved by the low-English literacy of the inmates – aged between seven and 17 – Chinule made a spontaneous decision to salvage the communication barrier in the juvenile centre. For the past five years, this choice has kept her using local languages such as Pidgin, in teaching high-school mathematics to incarcerated teenagers – a move, which sparked the development of the students by an impressive margin.  
  
“It was in March 2016, when we first walked into the Remand Home. We were three who came together to do a project from the US Consulate’s Carrington Youth Fellowship Initiative (CYFI) Project. As a mathematician, I was working in the capacity of teaching maths. I had a colleague who was teaching entrepreneurial skills; because that is her area. I had another colleague teaching social behavioural change. The very day we came with the questionnaires for our pre-test, to understand the students before teaching them. The warden in charge of the remand home said that they wouldn’t be able to read it. And it was true. I went back to restructure my curriculum to be able to teach using Pidgin; because it was the general language they spoke.”  Ripple Effect
From the way her pitch rose and her tempo mellowed over the phone call, I could tell that this part of the subject matter struck a soft spot.
  
“They became our friends and that’s the amazing thing. They could tell us the truth. Some of them still call even after they have been released.”
  
Chinule and her two-man army, composed of her CYFI colleagues, Ngozi Sam Orji and Chinwe Egboka respectively, have created several memorable experiences from their exploits at Borokiri. From their entrance at the Remand Home in 2016, till their most recent tutorial a few days ago, it has been a tapestry of events that both inspire and reward Chinule for her selfless service.
  
“There was a lot of bonding. I have a book I wrote, titled Academics Without Tears, where I shared why they should pursue their academic careers and how to be successful at it. We encouraged some of them with musical talents to start writing songs. I gave all of them the book; they all took my contact.
  
“In fact, one of my students is in Lagos; he was put in the remand home for murder. But now, he has been released and is teaching mathematics in a tutorial, while awaiting his WAEC exams. This guy actually committed the murder, but it was in self-defense.
  
“What made me close to tears was that he has been released since last year and, now, he says that he is focused on ensuring that he doesn’t repeat any crime, and, secondly, he is pursuing his academics. There is nothing more fulfilling than that. Almost every two days, he calls and we talk. He has never asked me for money. That is a sign of a change in behaviour. For me, to understand that someone has changed his character is a big deal.” A strained childhood 
Chinule’s philanthropy has its roots buried in her stressful childhood. Amid her struggles, she developed empathy for people that ran so deep that it became a power surge for her charitable endeavours. From the smoky streets of Port Harcourt where she sold fried pastries to partly fundraise her tuition, to bagging a first class degree and a Post-graduate Chevening scholarship in a British university, Chinule has remained restless for success – a concept she defines on her own terms.
  
“I have this unexplainable passion to help people. Sometimes, you don’t know that people are having a hard time with life. I am an only child, and life was rosy, to an extent, until I lost my dad when I was 15; from financial lack, to me not being able to afford university education – I was literally dropping out. Somehow, everything went down the drain and I had to start seeing life from a different perspective. It kind of nudged me to help people.
  
“I remember one particular term, after my dad died, we had to sell his car to pay my school fees. I was literally going to drop out at that point. Before university, I was frying chin-chin and working at supermarkets to raise money for my university. My mum had a shop where she was selling second-hand clothes, at the time. I was also taking from her and going to sell. I was making beads and selling. I was being entrepreneurial so I could save up money for my first-year studies. When I started school, I gained the MTN scholarship, which, for me, was very huge. It took out the financial burden from me, and I had to concentrate on my academics. The scholarship was worth N200, 000 Naira, annually, and it was able to cover my school fees, accommodation and it sustained every other expenditure I incurred for my upkeep throughout the year.
  
“To really say I have done well, someone must have benefited from it. I should have helped someone’s life become better. People know that I can give others my last. In UNIZIK, I had lecturers who were referring students to me to teach, for free. When I finished my degree and I saw students struggling with studying maths, I would go and run tutorials for them every week. I found out that people actually needed this help. I was scared about people’s academic excellence, especially those who were underprivileged and could not get quality education. Also, what Pastor Chris Oyakhilome says motivates me: ‘Real success is impacting the world with the investment of your personality.’ I always wanted to be successful.” Quest For Change 
Chinule has always nursed a passion to become Nigeria’s Education Minister. Her motivations are beyond financial gain, as is common with many individuals. Rather, it is a passionate quest to revamp the country’s educational sector and propel it to its peak.
  
Since her university days at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University (UNIZIK), Awka, to her journey through University College, London, down to her projects in Nigeria, Chinule’s desire has been to teach in a way that everyone can understand. Her foreign travels, exposure, and academic accolades have also never been an incentive for migration. Unlike many professionals who exit the country to seek coloured pastures abroad, Chinule’s travels have been to broaden her knowledge on how to help improve the educational sector in Nigeria.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .