Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, a member of Standard Bank Group, has announced its partnership with the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSEFT) to train Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) in entrepreneurship through a series of financial planning sessions, tagged ‘Managing Your Finances’.
 
The bank, through its regular financial planning sessions, has trained individuals, entrepreneurs and business managers in personal and corporate finance to enhanced their knowledge in the areas of wealth creation, improved business management and financial management skills.
 
Speaking on the partnership, the bank’s chief executive, Dr. Demola Sogunle, said the collaboration between Stanbic IBTC and the LSEFT reflected the financial institution’s commitment to the growth and development of Nigerians and the economy. 
 
He commended the LSEFT for the promotion of entrepreneurship through improved access to finance, strengthened institutional capacity of SMEs and policies formulated to improve the business environment in Lagos State. Sogunle assured LSETF of Stanbic IBTC’s support in the development of SMEs in Nigeria. “This partnership is crucial because we will be taking beneficiaries through our highly specialised financial planning sessions where they will gain knowledge in different areas of financial management. “We hope that the insights from this engagement will accelerate their entrepreneurial growth and empower them with the requisite financial knowledge to thrive in life and business. “
 
He said the synergy would enable the bank to embrace the opportunity to contribute to achieving the global sustainable development goals, amongst which are: reduction in the levels of poverty and hunger, economic growth and reduction in inequality.”
 
According to him, the partnership has not only supported entrepreneurs and business owners, it has contributed to the achievement of the United Nations-backed Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
 
Stanbic IBTC Holdings is an end-to-end financial services organisation and a part of the over 155-year old Standa.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .