 Vice-Chancellor of Igbinedion University, Okada (IUO), Professor Lawrence Ezemonye  Speaking at the institution’s 2021 Annual Research Summit with the theme: Impact of    COVID-19 on Research and Development, he said the absence of adequate policy responses worsened the situation. The professor of ecotoxicology and environmental forensics, who expressed concerns over the country’s efforts to contain the pandemic among other national issues hindering  Nigeria’s development indexes, said climate change responses fell short of the Paris Agreement objective of limiting global warming to between 1.5c and 2c. While saying that responding to the fast changing landscape was a necessary task for stakeholders on commitment towards responding to national emergency, he said restoring global dynamism and continental optimism were required to adequately change the scenario. He said the COVID-19 pandemic has sent shockers to the global economy, social contracts, research and development, noting that this is the time for global co-operation, continental partnership and national multi-sectorial co-ordination. Ezemonye charged universities in the country to commit more fund to research and development (R&D) adding that IUO is an institution that supports research endeavours. “This is in realisation of the fact that research output of universities in form of groundbreaking inventions and innovations in Science, Technology and the Arts were the key ingredients required for development of society,” he said. He added that the impetus to sustain the summit over the years is predicated on institution’s vision to be a centre of academic excellence through teaching, research and knowledge production in response to contextualized national and global needs. “This is also in tandem with the remit of Universities the world over as ivory towers and citadel of learning, who commit themselves to knowledge generation, dissemination and application through research, teaching, and community service respectively,” he added. Other resource persons who contributed virtually include, Chairman, Nigeria Expert Review Committee on Polio Eradication and Routine Immunisation, Prof. Oyewale Tomori and Special Advisor to the Commissioner for Rural Economy and Agriculture, African Union Commission and Integration Consultant, Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), Prof. Jerome Afeikhena, charged stakeholders to ensure improvement in the development indexes of the country through quality and evidence-based research. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .