 chairman, Governing Council of the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NIIT), John Onojeharho  The chairman, Governing Council of the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NIIT), John Onojeharho, has said Nigeria loses at least N3.7 trillion to food wastage and poor cold chain logistics yearly. Onojeharho said the country scored one per cent in cold chain management. According to him, the market is huge, and if properly tapped, “the country can save $9 billion yearly, by avoiding food wastage through proper storage”. Speaking at the eighth Nigeria Annual Transport Lecture in Lagos recently, he said if the 15 million metric tonnes of perishable goods currently wasted yearly were well preserved, inflation would drop, with attendant improvement on the economy. He appealed to stakeholders to invest in the cold chain sector in support of the diversification efforts of the government. The transport expert attributed poor cold chain logistics to lack of good road infrastructure, continuity of the cold supply chain, high capital investment and poor power supply amongst others. He, however, stated that efficient logistics are critical to economic growth. “When foods are properly preserved, it would reduce wastage, increase income, create employment and add value to the products,” he said. Meanwhile, the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), has said Nigeria is committed to the electric car revolution, coupled with a cleaner and sustainable environment. Director General of NADDC, Jelani Aliyu, said the unveiling first Nigerian Assembled Electric Vehicle in Abuja on February 5, 2021, by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, was remarkable and historic. “Two months later, on April 8, 2021, incredible history was again made when the NADDC commissioned Nigeria’s first Solar Powered EV Charging Station in Sokoto. “With these two bold events, Nigeria courageously joined the league of nations that are committed to the Electric Car Revolution, committed to protecting the environment and ensuring a cleaner and more sustainable future,” he said. According to Jelani, the NADDC is not just promoting the local production of traditional automobiles, but also committed to the adoption and production of advanced technology in transport solutions. Jelani explained that the Council was strategising with Electric Vehicle Policy Development; NADDC direct Research and Development as well as the promotion and support of stakeholders’ production process. Others include the development of charging infrastructure and collaboration with academia and research institutions. He added that electric vehicles come with many advantages. In his presentation titled: ‘Improving Nigerian Transportation System: The Way Forward’, Corp Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, noted that transportation is central to economic growth. Oyeyemi said: “No matter what we do, without transportation, we cannot move. Globally, transportation is the biggest industry and it has continued to grow. “But the pressure is too much on the road. Fatality has been on the high. We used to have an average of 100 lives lost on roads weekly. Speed is a major aspect that we need to address.” In his opening remarks, Publisher of the Transport Day Newspaper, the organiser of the programme, Frank Kintum, said the lecture helped to brainstorm on contemporary issues affecting the transportation industry. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .