 Managing Director, AMCON, Ahmed Kuru. Photo/NAIRAMETRICS  Odds against the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON)’s efforts to dispose of seized assets are growing, a development that could potentially slow down its debt recovery programme.  However, the Corporation’s Head of Corporate Communication, Jude Nwauzor, argued, yesterday, that the disposal programme is stalled by litigation, noting that AMCON is currently involved in over 3,000 court cases. He stressed that AMCON is profitable, saying it will not sell any asset below the cost of acquisition. He disclosed that the Corporation has so far recovered N1.2trillion. Nwauzor added that the company has sold assets worth N500billion while it has paid the N2trillion to the CBN. Its outstanding indebtedness to the apex bank, he said, “is N4.7trillion.” IN the aviation sector, the fate of Aero Contractors and Arik Air, which AMCON took over, hangs in a balance over their slow recovery in the last five years of their takeover and funding by AMCON.  Meanwhile, the procedure for the Air Operating Certificate (AOC) for NG Eagle has scaled the fourth stage of approval at the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). AMCON has said Arik Air would continue to operate side-by-side the NG Eagle. Though the future of Arik is uncertain, NG Eagle, according to AMCON’s plans, will later be sold to investors or the Federal Government that is angling to float a new national carrier.
 
Sources within the airline that responded to questions on AMCON changing Arik to NG Eagle, spoke in denial, saying both are distinct entities.  “If the idea of the new airline is to attract investors, then I support it. But keeping it with the other two in the stable will not be good enough. Again, I think AMCON has overstayed after 10 years. Yet, they could not get something tangible out of the two airlines. I think it is time to do the needful, rather than keep dragging the two airlines along and pumping in more money,” Ohunayo said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .