Ovie Omo-Agege FG constructs new distribution infrastructure
The Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, and Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), yesterday stressed the need to end energy poverty in Nigeria and improve power infrastructure. They disclosed this at the groundbreaking ceremony a new 1×7.5MVA and 33/11kV injection distribution substation in Orogun being constructed by NDPHC. Speaking at the event, Omo-Agege said significant efforts are being made to end energy poverty in the country. These, they said, include the provision of electricity to rural communities across the country. Omo-Agege said: “The objective has been to ensure that the number of people who use modern energy should increase to reduce social costs and to increase social benefits”. He noted that the establishment of the power substation was one of the several initiatives of the administration aimed at addressing energy poverty. “Substations play a critical role in the power industry. Substations support the transmission grid in moving power from generation sources to customer’s load while electrical utilities use them for system protection, switching capabilities and, more importantly, voltage transformations,” he said According to him, the new facility would boost access to energy in the region and bring about enhanced economic activities and reduce poverty through enhanced income, health, education and an improved environment. Managing Director/CEO, NDPHC, Chiedu Ugbo said the injection substation is an NDPHC/National Integrated Power Project (NIPP) intervention project. Stating that the initiative would also boost economic activities in the community, Ugbo noted that the project would step down power from the already existing 33KV line to 11kV. He said the project involved the construction of 4km of 11KV line to distribute power to the community. The director equally said seven distribution transformers would be installed in the community while disclosing that, with the injection substation, faults on the downstream line would not be allowed to trip the entire network. He said the company has been engaging the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) and has been assured by the DisCo that the project aligns with infrastructure upgrades in the community. The General Manager, Distribution, Gadzama Mele, who gave details of the project, said the project involved the construction of 7.5MVA, 33/11kV injection substation and 4km of 11kV lines with installation of seven units of 300KVA, 11/0.415kV distribution substations and construction of 2.5km of low tension (LT) lines to take power to the community.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .