The crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State worsened, yesterday, as a group of leaders of the party suspended the former chairman of the party in the state, Adelowo Adebiyi, for forming a new group. The group, called “Igbimo Agba,” accused Adebiyi of causing disunity within the party. The decision to suspend Adebiyi, who now chairs a splinter group of the party, The Osun Progressives (TOP), was reached at the monthly meeting of the group yesterday. A statement signed by the Chairman of the group, Chief Sola Akinwumi, also passed “a vote of confidence” on the administration of Governor Gboyega Oyetola and the leadership of the caretaker chairman of the party, Gboyega Famoodun. RELATEDLY, leaders and members of APC in Ijesa North Federal Constituency, made up of Obokun and Oriade local councils in Osun State, have distanced themselves from the splinter group, which has the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, as the Chairman of its Board of Trustees. Speaking on behalf of the party leaders and members in the zone, the overall leader of Obokun Local Council APC, Otunba Jumoke Ogunkeyede, said the decision of TOP to oppose the party was “tantamount to evil, egregious and unscrupulous act, which should be discountenanced in its entirety.” “It is unfortunate that with all the giant strides of Governor Gboyega Oyetola in the state, some elements, under the guise of the Osun Progressive (TOP), have made themselves willing tools in the hand of the devil, all with the aim of distracting the governor from properly managing the Osun economy. “We will also resist these disgruntled ones until they retrace their steps and team up with the people’s governor whose hard work has been earning him accolades and awards from within the state and all over Nigeria,” he said. “Under no circumstance will the leadership and members of this federal constituency abandon truly progressive efforts of the amiable and goal-getting governor for a group whose only cause of action is cruel hatred towards a perfectly responsible, responsive and a performing governor whose level of attentiveness is second to none,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .