Mr. Ange de la Victoire DUSABEMUNGU, a journalist from TOPAFRICANEWS.COM, Rwanda’s Panafrican News Website, is one of 50 journalists selected from around the world to take part in the United States' Combatting the Climate Crisis through the U.S. Innovations Virtual Reporting Tour.  Mr. DUSABEMUNGU is an experienced Communications Associate with a demonstrated history of working in Rwanda's Media industry. Environment journalist at www.TOPAFRICANEWS.com. Mr. DUSABEMUNGU started working in the Media Industry from 2012 after University graduation. He worked for 4 Years at IGIHE.COM as Editor. IGIHE is Rwanda's popular online website. After that he launched www.TOPAFRICANEWS.com to which he is a reporter. According to the note from the U.S Department of State-Bureau of Global Public Affairs: “the U.S. Department of State, in cooperation with our partner Meridian International Center, is pleased to offer this virtual program to enable journalists to examine U.S. efforts to promote international cooperation to develop and expand the availability of diverse traditional and alternative sources of energy.” This exclusive opportunity will be provided to 50 journalists from all geographic regions, specifically from countries affected by demands to reduce emissions standards and seeking solutions to energy challenges. These journalists have been specifically selected by U.S. Embassies and Consulates. This three-week-long program includes on-the-record press briefings with climate change issues' experts, analysts, and government officials, as well as exclusive access to interviews and videos from Washington, D.C., Michigan, and Colorado. The Virtual Tour starts from Monday, May 10th to Friday, May 28th, 2021. By 2050, scientists estimate, climate stressors — including hurricanes, wildfires, drought, extreme heat and flooding from rising seas — could compel between 25 million and 1 billion people around the world to leave their homes and jobs behind, some temporarily, some for good. The United States is taking unprecedented efforts to reduce carbon pollution, promote cleaner sources of energy, mitigate climate impact, and promote international efforts to address global climate change. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of TOPAFRICANEWS. Media Contact:
Mr. DUSABEMUNGU Ange de la Victoire
E-mail: info@topafricanews.com
Tel: +250787105131
Kigali-Rwanda About TOPAFRICANEWS.COM:
Top Africa News.com is a Private shareholder Digital News Website managed by AFRICA NEWS DIGEST Ltd, a Domestic Company registered in Rwanda Development Board. Available on www.topafricanews.com, this website publishes stories from across Africa focusing on Environment, Natural resources, Livestock and Agriculture, Tourism and conservation, Youth, Sports and Culture, Peace Building, Health, Infrastructure and ICT, Security, Education, Business and Banking. The main objective of this website is to tell the World the real Africa’s Story from the real and reliable sources. We Publish News Stories, Supplements stories, advertorials, Feature stories among many others. We are based in Kigali, Rwanda. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .