 Lpee  After spending time studying in South Africa, Lpee honed his storytelling sojourn with a break into the filmmaking scene. This time also saw him create a unique musical experience called Sacred Fest, which propelled the South African gospel scene. Every second of his life has been spent culling experiences, most of which he reflects in his playlist.
With songs such as Shamaya, Jungle, Blessings, We Sippin, Lingo and Tonight, Lpee believes the only hope for the struggling man is to tell the story of his plight. “Jungle Life is a title that details my journey so far. It’s a Jungle out there and that’s what I’m trying to tell. Just like everyone, there are lots of bitter experiences we get from either the people we love the most that we’d hoped will reciprocate the kindness, but that wasn’t the case or the lesson life teaches us, these are life lessons we all learn; it’s a Jungle Life.” The Imo-native who also doubles as a producer and record executive, noted that he had to struggle learning the ropes of showbiz while in the rainbow nation. Now, he runs Jungle Hustle Music record and Jungle Hustle Productions.  “Nigeria music industry is being appreciated and celebrated globally, but we know where the gap lies in terms of business and management aspect of everything. South Africa music industry is a very well organised industry; there are a lot of artistes who don’t know how to monetise their songs in Nigeria. We must learn how to monetize the content. “Music is expensive, but a lot of Nigerian artistes just rush into dropping songs; different platforms exploit them. The truth is that a musician should be able to make money digitally, no matter how little it is. I’ve been to offices of the performing musicians association in South Africa and they are doing a lot to make sure their artistes get paid for their content.
 
“I recommend that any upcoming artiste should affiliate with people who have been in the industry long before them. Not until they have 5 million followers on Instagram before they can make music, they have to affiliate with people that have been there before them.” 