kidnapping PHOTO: shutterstock Urges Presidency to suspend deployment of 5G 
The Senate is considering a bill to discourage the payment and receipt of ransom for the release any person kidnapped, imprisoned or wrongfully confined. Payment of ransom by the public to secure the release of victims of abduction seem to encourage hoodlums involved in the unholy act. The Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which scaled second reading during plenary yesterday, is sponsored by Ezenwa Onyewuchi (PDP, Imo East). Having scaled the second reading, the bill, when finally passed, will deny kidnappers the collection of ransom in millions of naira, which kept them in ‘business’ to the detriment of helpless Nigerians. Leading debate on the bill, the lawmaker said, “the legislation seeks to amend the Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2013” to outlaw the payment of ransom to abductors and terrorists. According to Onyewuchi, the bill essentially seeks to substitute for section 14 of the Principal Act a new section to read: “Anyone who transfers funds, makes payment or colludes with an abductor, kidnapper or terrorist to receive any ransom for the release of any person, who has been wrongfully confined, imprisoned or kidnapped is guilty of a felony and is liable on conviction to a term of imprisonment of not less than 15 years.” ALSO, the red chamber has urged the Presidency to withhold the deployment of the 5th Generation (5G) network, pending the proper study of its deployment across the world. This followed the consideration and adoption of the report of the joint Senate committee on Communications, Science and Technology, ICT, Cyber Crime and Primary Healthcare and Communicable Diseases on the ‘Status of 5G Network in Nigeria and its Impact on Nigerian Citizens’. The Senate had on May 5, 2020, following a motion by Senator Uche Ekwunife (PDP, Anambra Central), mandated the joint committee to investigate ‘The Status of 5G Network in Nigeria and its Technological Impact on Nigerian Citizens’.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .