 NPA  A number of questions will be asked: what is the state of the channels? What is the status of the contract for the Joint Venture Partnership for channel management (capital/maintenance and wreck removal)? Has the contract been awarded after the ministerial directive in August 2020 that further contract award in respect of the channel management should be put on hold?  The ministry had claimed in the statement that the NPA did not deem it necessary to date to respond to the ministerial directives, despite the fact that the above letter was duly received by the NPA on February 2, 2021. But there are claims, strengthened by some facts and figures, on which a critical mind could make some logical inferences. The first is that the contract for the Joint Venture Partnership for channel management has not been awarded as it is still undergoing procurement. This is verifiable and if discovered to be otherwise, subject to rebuttal. In line with due process, the award of the contract must go to the Ministerial Tenders’ Board and thereafter to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for approval.  Since the directive that the NPA should procure dredgers was not as simple as the directive came, the claim and contention over sidestepping the ministerial directive should be resolved in favour of the NPA and its suspended Managing Director. But then the implication of the “delay” was that the extension of one year that the Minister wanted would be got through the back door. So, what exactly is the Minister’s anger against the backdrop of the fact that he had earlier directed the extension of the contract for the JVP for another one year, if not that the BPP raised the objection that has created the Elephant in the room?
 
Looking at the position of the minister on the procurement of equipment by the NPA to execute the job of channel management in-house dispassionately, one should also consider the amount of damage procurement of the equipment would do to the coffers of the NPA/Federal Government.  The current market prices according to some industry sources are staggering.  These are the equipment that JV companies use globally for the management of channels. It is the reason channels management is done globally through third party contractors with a track record of performance and financial capacity to absorb the possible shocks that arise during job execution. They could afford the equipment which they deploy in various project sites globally. Would the minister expect this behemoth of equipment to be procured at the snap of the fingers or at his directive? The minister as a man of courage should call out Hadiza such that it would be impracticable for her to put up a defence that would exculpate her.  The truth is that the Minister requested that the NPA should extend the existing JV partners for one year at the expiration of their 15-year contract in August 2020.  In line with the Public Procurement Act, the Authority sought no objection to extending the contract for one year in line with the Minister’s directive but the Bureau of Public Procurement, BPP, declined the request and directed the Authority to rather proceed to conduct public tenders for the JV partner.
 
Can it be verified that when the Authority notified the Minister about this development, he sent a letter directing the Authority to procure the dredgers and provide information about costs of wreck removal instead of proceeding with the tender. But there are many challenges to the execution of this directive namely: How can the authority procure dredgers when they are not within its budget? How long will it take for the authority to procure the dredgers even if it obtained budget virement? What is the cost of buying the dredger and its maintenance? Has the authority the skill and manpower resources to do the capital, maintenance, and wreck removals? To boot and more importantly, has there been any award of dredging contract and has the tender been completed? Sancta simplicitas! Onwuachu, a lawyer, wrote from Yaba, Lagos.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .