 Ozonkpu Victor Oye<br />  Making Hay
AFTER the NWC meeting, it was obvious that the APGA leadership under Njoku was determined to make hay while it was still day. The NWC said it met as part of its statutory duties and in fulfillment of the party’s internal workings and to strengthen APGA’s internal democracy.
 
The party said it set up a six-member communiqué drafting committee comprising, Alhaji A.D Musa, (Deputy National Chairman North) as chairman, Okoro Chinedum Benedict (Secretary), Barrister Hamman Buba, (Legal Adviser), Hon. Ezekwelu Chukwudi Tony (National Vice Chairman Southeast), Hon. Freedom Henry Okwuchukwu (National Organizing Secretary) and Camaru Lateef Ogidan (National Vice Chairman Southwest) as members. 
   
The part said it reexamined, reassessed and reevaluated the party’s ideology, focus and political capital and the state of the party and resolved that harmonising the various interests of stakeholders will ensure APGA’s victory in the November 6 Anambra governorship election.
 
“To achieve this, the NWC proposed the constitution of a 5 man Committee and to ensure that the forthcoming APGA governorship primaries on June 25, 2021 is seen as free, fair and credible,” the NWC resolved. Other resolutions reached at the NWC include the decision to consider the proposal for extension of sale of expression of interest and nomination forms for the governorship. “This,” the party stated, “is to accommodate requests from party members that have shown interest to purchase the forms from the Njoku leadership. “The NWC looked at various applications from new entrants into the party that whish to contest the election. As the NWC, we feel that politics being a group activity, people should be given a level play ground to prove their mettle and bring new vibes into our great party.” The NWC further resolved that although the Anambra governorship election remains at the front burner, its preoccupation is to reposition APGA for greater potentials in 2023. Contrary Note
BUT peeved by the huge mileage and goodwill being garnered by Njoku, Oye, through the party’s Legal Adviser, Ezeokenwa, said APGA remains indivisible under him. In a statement, Ezeokenwa lamented that conclusions drawn by APGA Eminent Group, were meant to cast aspersion on Oye’s leadership, lamenting that the action of the group must be the latest in a series of attacks against APGA by Chief Edozie Njoku. Recalling how Njoku also featured in a phone in programme of African Independent Television (AIT), Ezeokenwa regretted that the station granted Njoku “a cameo appearance, where he made a barrage of mischievous claims, ostensibly in a bid to accentuate his claim to the exalted position of the National Chairman of APGA.” Ezeokenwa said one of the most hideous claims by Njoku was that he is a founding member of APGA, alleging that Njoku is not a member of APGA and cannot claim any right, benefit or position in APGA. While contending that APGA constitution does not guarantee or enthrone perpetual membership, Ezeokenwa said Chief Njoku has been in and out of the party in a number of occasions. Ezeokenwa stated: “It is a known fact and as decided by various courts that it is only a political party that knows and determines, who its members are. Thus, the claim of being a foundation member of APGA by Chief Edozie Njoku stands logic on its head. “Several foundation members of APGA have left the party to seek political fortunes elsewhere. Indeed, no less a person than the pioneer National Chairman of APGA has left the party. What makes Chief Njoku’s case different?” The Legal Adviser disclosed that only the national chairman of a party could appoint members of the Convention Planning Committee, but failed to controvert Njoku’s claim that the Oye did not reserve the right to disrupt the process midway to serve his narrow purpose. Again, going by the allegation that the use of party delegates to run a fresh convention after their tenure expired rendered the convention null and void, shows that the courts have issues to settle for APGA. Yet, while Njoku and Oye are wrestling over the last APGA convention, attempts by some stakeholders to choose Soludo as consensus candidate is causing furor in the party. Erstwhile national chairman of the party, Sir Victor Umeh, had, in a news interview described Soludo as the only aspirant that could win the governorship for APGA. But, no sooner had Umeh made the assertions than other aspirants, including Hon. Chukwuma Umeoji and Nze Akachukwu Nwankpo, cried foul, alleging that Umeh wanted to atone for his clever tricks against the former CBN governor in 2013. Ever since he announced his interest to contest the APGA ticket, Umeoji was seen as a ‘lion killer,’ even as some stakeholders accuse him of being sponsored to spoil the chances of the former CBN governor. Despite insinuations and innuendos, Umeoji has continued to wave his grassroots appeal, which gifted him a second term at the House of Representatives. While Soludo hails from Isuofia, Umeoji is from Ezinifite in the same Aguata Local Council of the state. Despite the fact of their Aguata roots, which some stakeholders tried to use to blackmail him out of the race, Umeoji declared that only APGA delegates should select the party’s standard bearer and not self-serving expired wannabe political godfathers. Whether APGA would pick its candidate through consensus or harmonisation, the crucial huddle for the party featuring in the November 6, poll could be the outcome of the Njoku versus Oye contention in court.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .