 The burnt police station  Less than one week after the Bende Divisional Police Station in Bende Local Government Area of Abia State was attacked and burnt by unknown gunmen, the Apumiri Ubakala Police Station in Umuahia South Local Government Area was, in the early hours of yesterday, attacked by hoodlums. The state police command spokesman, Mr. Geoffrey Ogbonna, who confirmed the attack, said two policemen were killed during the attack. He said the station, including the DPO’s office, was set ablaze alongside some exhibit vehicles, disclosing that when the attackers arrived with dangerous weapons, including Improvised Explosive Devices (IED’s) and got repelled by the policemen on duty, they retreated, returned and attacked the station through the back office. He said that the police station was vulnerable from all sides and urged hospitals and members of the public to report anybody with suspected bullet wounds to fast-track their investigations. The latest incident brings attacks on police stations in the state within the past three months to seven. So far, the police have not announced any arrest. The Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, while expressing worry over the attacks and other acts of criminality in the state, listed some of the actions his government had taken to address attacks on government facilities. Speaking during a zoom meeting at the weekend, he said his administration would assemble stakeholders in the security sector to brainstorm and response to the current security challenges. According to him, the stakeholders would include top retired police officers, Department of State Services (DSS), army, navy and air force, among others. He said the Ebubeagu Security Outfit, as proposed by the governors of the Southeast, is still on course as Attorney-Generals of the states had met several times since the pronouncement by the governors to work out templates that would guide the relationship and cooperation that would ensure the success of the Ebubeagu outfit. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .