Shosanya Babatunde Oluwaseyi A veteran music practitioner and educator, Shosanya Babatunde Oluwaseyi, former Head of Music, British International School, Lagos, has come out to say that the government should commit more funds to music education in the country. Speaking on what the government should do for the music education sector, Oluwaseyi said, “Government should provide adequate funds for the purchase of musical instruments such as the piano and other educational resources like internet facility and tape recorders.” He maintained that untrained and unqualified teachers shouldn’t be allowed to teach music in the school while also insisting that the government should sponsor the training of music teachers. “Government should also sponsor the training of music teachers as well as sponsor them for postgraduate studies. They should provide scholarships for students willing to study music at the university level. Provide music studios and libraries with music textbooks. Review the curriculum and infuse our indigenous music. Authorize playing of art and church music on national radio stations. Provide a befitting concert hall that has indigenous instruments. “The curriculum should be reviewed and adapted with the 21st-century Nigerian child. The school should begin to look at the direction of our works by Nigerian composers. Government should not neglect the arts and channel more funds.” Oluwaseyi said that music as a subject is not fully appreciated in the country. Hence, he advises that the government should look inward and have a rethink through the ministry of education to bring music back to the classroom in the public school system. “Information gathered through my research and also my view and opinion I see no reason why the federal government has to merge music, art, and drama together. I will like to use this medium to appeal to the Lagos State Government through the Commissioner of Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, that music education is essential and should be available to all students in our public schools. So, the policy of the government is a hindrance for music at public school,” Oluwaseyi said. He concluded by advising his fellow educators in general that “technology is changing at a rapid pace and that means the 21st-century teacher should be right along for the ride. Successful 21st-century teachers don’t just expect their students to be lifelong learns but they should stay current and on top of what’s new in education as well as other fields that interest them. They should enjoy acquiring new knowledge and be enthusiastic about new experiences.