Temenos Multifonds Global Accounting platform enables Curo Fund Services to deliver seamless back office service; Curo is a third-party administrator for 3,000 funds with assets under management in excess of $150 billion; Agility and scalability of Temenos (www.Temenos.com) platform supports Curo’s large multi-client fund base and rapid pace of product evolution in the investment industry.  Temenos (SIX: TEMN), the banking software company, today announced that Curo Fund Services (www.CuroFund.com), South Africa’s largest third-party administrator, has gone live with Temenos Multifonds Global Accounting platform, completing the first phase migration of funds from its five legacy systems to a single instance of Temenos’ award-winning funds administration platform. The move to Temenos’ platform has transformed Curo’s operating model by simplifying its architecture and enabling more automated exception-based processing to increase efficiencies, reduce costs and open up new opportunities for growth. Curo provides investment operations and fund accounting services to life companies, asset managers and multi-managers. It employs 300 people and services 3,000 funds with assets under administration of more than $150 billion. Its clients include Sanlam and Old Mutual, South Africa’s largest asset managers. With Temenos’ platform, Curo is able to deliver a seamless back office service with a higher degree of automation and straight through processing. This reduces risk and cost by reducing human processing and enables Curo to deliver a best-in class service to clients with automated information flows between the administrator and asset managers. Having successfully completed a first phase migration of funds, Curo expects to transition all 3,000 funds to the Temenos platform during 2021. Temenos’ platform has proved it can easily scale to meet the needs of Curo’s large multi-client fund base. It has also demonstrated it supports requirements specific to the South African market, including complex life and pension portfolio structures and reporting; market specific requirements for asset classes such as bonds and swaps; and South Africa tax reporting and regulatory reporting. Curo is now looking ahead at international opportunities. Operating its business on Temenos Multifonds Global Accounting gives Curo the agility to expand geographically and support its local clients that operate in international markets. Barri Maggott, Chief Executive Officer, Curo Fund Services, commented: “We are delighted to complete the first migration of funds to the Temenos platform. Temenos’ single, scalable platform delivers cost-efficiency benefits and provides the agility and flexibility we need to deliver a best-in-class service to our clients. With Temenos technology, we can more efficiently support our clients’ key asset servicing, position keeping, valuation and accounting functions. We can also support their rapid pace of product evolution to bring timely, creative investment offerings to their markets. In the fast-paced investment industry this gives Curo and our clients a competitive edge.” Oded Weiss, Managing Director, Temenos, said: “We are delighted the largest fund administrator in South Africa is now live on the Temenos platform. Temenos is trusted by leading fund administrators and asset management firms around the world to administer, service and value assets for their global client base. Curo is building a world-class fund administration service and we are proud to support them as they continue to innovate and expand their offering on our platform.” Temenos was awarded the highest ‘best in class’ status in Aite’s Matrix Evaluation of Investment and Fund Accounting Systems (https://bit.ly/33ukpoa) report. Temenos Multifonds Global Accounting also gained the highest status in five portfolio management and accounting solution categories by Adox Research (https://bit.ly/3bhSqMA) Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Temenos. Media Contacts:
Jessica Wolfe & Scott Rowe
Temenos Global Public Relations
Tel: +1 610 232 2793 & +44 20 7423 3857
Email : press@temenos.com Alistair Kellie & Andrew Adie
Newgate Communications on behalf of Temenos
Tel: +44 20 7680 6550
Email: allnewgatetemenos@newgatecomms.com About Temenos:
Temenos AG (SIX: TEMN) is the world’s leader in banking software. Over 3,000 banks across the globe, including 41 of the top 50 banks, rely on Temenos to process both the daily transactions and client interactions of more than 1.2 billion banking customers. Temenos offers cloud-native, cloud-agnostic and AI-driven front office, core banking, payments and fund administration software enabling banks to deliver frictionless, omnichannel customer experiences and gain operational excellence. Temenos software is proven to enable its top-performing clients to achieve cost-income ratios of 26.8% half the industry average and returns on equity of 29%, three times the industry average. These clients also invest 51% of their IT budget on growth and innovation versus maintenance, which is double the industry average, proving the banks’ IT investment is adding tangible value to their business. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .