Meghan Markle Now An Author With Her First Children Book Meghan Markle on Tuesday announced she has written a children’s book called The Bench, which is inspired by Prince Harry and her one-year-old son Archie. The Duchess of Sussex, 39, said the book would explore the ‘special bond between father and son’ as ‘seen through a mother’s eyes’. The story, set for release on June 8, will be illustrated by bestselling artist Christian Robinson and published by Penguin Random House. In a statement, Meghan said: The Bench started as a poem I wrote for my husband on Father’s Day, the month after Archie was born. That poem became this story. Christian layered in beautiful and ethereal watercolour illustrations that capture the warmth, joy, and comfort of the relationship between fathers and sons from all walks of life; this representation was particularly important to me, and Christian and I worked closely to depict this special bond through an inclusive lens. My hope is that The Bench resonates with every family, no matter the makeup, as much as it does with mine. A media release reads: Inspired by her own husband and son, The Duchess of Sussex’s debut touchingly captures the evolving and expanding relationship between fathers and sons and reminds us of the many ways that love can take shape and be expressed in a modern family. Evoking a deep sense of warmth, connection, and compassion, The Bench gives readers a window into shared and enduring moments between a diverse group of fathers and sons—moments of peace and reflection, trust and belief, discovery and learning, and lasting comfort. The press statement described the Duchess of Sussex as a ‘mother, wife, feminist, and activist’ who “currently resides in her home state of California with her family, two dogs, and a growing flock of rescue chickens.” The Duchess will narrate an audiobook edition, to be released in the US and Canada by Listening Library; and in the UK by Penguin Random House UK Audio. The Bench is illustrated by Caldecott-winning and bestselling artist Christian Robinson and will be published by Random House Children’s Books in the US, Tundra Books, an imprint of Penguin Random House Canada; and Puffin, an imprint of Penguin Random House Children’s UK, in the UK, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, India, and South Africa.