 President, Literacy Integration & Formal Education (LIFE) foundation, Elvira Salleras  By virtue of the order, adoptions from Nigeria to the UK were suspended with effect from March 12, 2021.
 
President, Literacy Integration & Formal Education (LIFE) foundation, Elvira Salleras, in a statement insisted that the law is a gross abuse of adoption law.
 
Salleras currently operates an adoption agency with expertise and extensive experience in inter-country adoptions from Nigeria since 2006, working in partnership with Lagos and Anambra States.
 
“We feel constrained to address the issues raised in the said circular, using Lagos state, which has similar processes to those of Anambra State, as a reference point, to provide clarity and set the records straight,” Salleras said.
 
Salleras stated that adoption in Nigeria is a matter of state and not federal law, which means that every state has its own adoption law, procedure, and practice, which may differ significantly from those applicable in other states. She described adoption in Lagos State as a subject of the Child’s Right’s law 2007 as amended in 2015.
 
“By this law, Lagos state could be said to have domesticated the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child even though Nigeria is not a party to the Hague convention. Indeed, it is an aberration to make reference to “the Nigerian adoption system” as this does not exist. Since adoption is a matter of state law, the adoption system in each state, stands and falls on its own merits,” Salleras said.
 
In responses to the concerns of the UK government, she noted that the background of each child proposed for adoption is firmly established by a robust, formal method requiring various administrative documents and involving a transparent investigation process. This, according to her results in the establishment of the child’s adoptability by the Ministry of Youth and Social Development (MYSD), and furthermore, the adoption process is facilitated by categorized procedures for both local and inter-country adoptions.
 
Listing the Adoption procedure for Nigerians living abroad, she stated that first is the submission of application letter to the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Block 18, Secretariat, Alausa, Lagos.
 
Followed by the submission of all required documents by prospective adopters or through Foundation (including Home Study Report and Approval Letter from Country of Domicile by appropriate Authorities. Another requirement is Administrative Processing by the Adoption Unit and Payment of N130,000 Administrative fees, Processing of all documents submitted for Honourable Commissioner’s Approval, and Collection of Approval Letter by the Prospective Adopters/Foundation.
 
Others are notification of arrival of prospective adopters after a successful matching of child/children at a registered orphanage, invitation of prospective adopters with their updated documents through the foundation for the release of child/children for bonding, and finally, conducting Bonding Assessment, interview with the Director, Social Welfare and finally legalization of the Adoption at the Family Court.
 
“According to Section 121 Child’s Rights Law of Lagos state, 2007 (as amended in 2015), “an adoption order must not be granted in respect of a child unless…the applicant has at least twelve months before the granting of the order, informed the social welfare officer of his intention to adopt the child,” Salleras said.  “The social workers job is a tough one because most times it is thankless a job. I was in the ministry the day the message came; you would have seen the way they reacted. It was like after all their struggles, it come to this. They should get to know the truth by getting to know how they do the job in the adoption space. Their method and process.”
 
Using Denmark as a case study, Salleras said that children adopted from Lagos are given automatic citizenship.
 
“Because of this excellent adoption process of Lagos state immediately the children were adopted from Nigeria they are entitled to Danish citizenship for the simple reason, that they found Lagos processes to be in line with international best practices as required by the Hague convention. Lagos should be wining medal, and not been judged and condemned in this matter,” Salleras said.
 
“I understand their concerns which is that documents submitted to their embassies or consulate, a lot of them have issues. Lots of fake documents, people forge birth certificate and so on. I insist that a trafficked child cannot go through the process for adoption. Lagos state is the pacesetter in adoption and some other states have diligently followed in their footstep and they are all doing a good job.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .