Father Mbaka The controversy surrounding the recent disappearance and appearance of fiery Catholic Priest, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka took another dimension as Mbaka announced the shutdown of his Adoration Ministry. He stated that activities of the ministry will remain at standstill for the next month while he embarks on a “personal prayer retreat.” It was gathered that the development may not be unconnected with an earlier directive of the Catholic Bishop of Enugu, His Grace, Callistus Onaga, when he invited the charismatic priest for a meeting last week. At the meeting that held at the Bishop’s court, Igboeze Street, Independence Layout, with other leaders of the church in Enugu, it was resolved that Mbaka should take one month off his duties to “any place of choice for a retreat”, following an alleged brewing conflict between him and the Nigerian government over his comments on the situation of the country. Mbaka suddenly went “missing” after the meeting, leading to an angry reaction by members of the Adoration Ministry of Nigeria (AMEN). The protesting group attacked the residence of the Bishop as well as the Holy Ghost Cathedral Church and destroyed several properties belonging to the church in the guise of demanding his release. The Church had after the attacks, declared seven days of prayers of atonement and reparation over what it termed the “desecration” of the holy temple by Mbaka and his followers. On Sunday, however, Mbaka had during a mass at the Adoration ground in Emene, Enugu, profusely apologized for the action of his members and pleaded for forgiveness from the Bishop and Catholic Church for the behavior of his followers and himself. He had also expressed the willingness of his members to join in the prayers declared by the Diocese. In a statement communicating the shutting down of the Adoration Ministry, signed by its Spokesperson, Maximum Ugwuoke, it stated that no further activities shall be held at the Adoration ground for the next one month, adding that Mbaka was proceeding on one month private prayer retreat. The statement read: “Our Spiritual Director, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka wishes to inform his beloved adorers that he has embarked on a private prayer retreat that will end on 10th June 2021. “Consequently, no ministry activities shall be held in the ministry ground pending his return. “He directs that members of the ministry are to observe this period of his retreat as they used to do during the usual January breaks of the ministry, by praying at their homes, being charitable and fasting according to their ability. Adoration! Holy Spirit is our Power.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .