 Onyekachi Monday Ubani  Speaking ahead of its yearly conference, chairman of NBA-SPIDEL Central Planning Committee, Mr. Monday Ubani, stated that the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) are on strike because government has failed to implement the Constitution. “The courts have been locked for almost two months because the governors have failed to comply with a provision of constitution they sworn to uphold. “ Up till now, we have been going forth and back on the issue of implementing the provision of the Constitution despite the fact that the president signed an executive order. “We want a judiciary that doesn’t go behind begging the executive to give them their resources in order to carry out the basic responsibilities that the constitution has imposed on them. We want a judiciary that can deliver justice without fear or favour, its long term effect is what we are looking at, not probably because of the short term losses we are suffering but I tell you this, if we succeed in doing this, we would have actually sorted out a very big problem for us as a nation. The issue of administration of justice is very key,” he stressed. He said the conference themed: ‘The role of public interest in governance in Nigeria”, would be held at Jogor Centre in Ibadan, Oyo State from May 23 to 26, 2021 with varying sub-themes such as, “Internal security of the nation’: a prerequisite for national development, legality and efficacy of regional vigilantes and other security frameworks” and others. Ubani assured that the conference would be a hybrid of virtual and in –person attendance, with a remarkable line up of knowledgeable speakers and panelists, who will interrogate critical issues around the exponential growth of technology across the world. Speakers for conference are, Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawan; Chief justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, House of Representative Speaker, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila; Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami; Economic Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) Chairman, Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa; NBA President, Mr. Olumide Akpata and others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .