Lagos Stategovernor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Photo: TWITTER/JIDESANWOOLU Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu Friday dissolved the governing council, thereby sacking the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, for flagrant violations of the extant laws and regulations of the university guiding the appointment of a vice-chancellor. Sanwo-Olu took the decision after consideration of the report of the special visitation panel on the appointment of the 9th Vice-Chancellor. “Cancellation of the second failed exercise to appoint the 9th Substantive Vice-Chancellor as a result of the flagrant contravention of extant laws, breach of due process, failure and total disregard to follow its own laid down criteria guiding the process for the appointment of a 9th Vice-Chancellor as publicly advertised,” Lagos State commissioner for information Gbenga Omotoso said in a statement. “In due course, a new governing council for the Lagos State University will be constituted. The reconstituted Council shall conduct a new process for the appointment of the 9th Vice-Chancellor. “Members of the Joint Council and the Senate Committee who participated in the two failed exercises of 2020 and 2021 to appoint a 9th Vice-Chancellor are exempted from further participation in the new exercise for the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor. The Acting Vice-Chancellor and Management of the University are hereby directed to elect new council members from the Senate.” The Commissioner said the Registrar and Secretary to Council is to proceed on leave with immediate effect till the end of the process for the appointment of the Vice-Chancellor, having failed to advise the Joint Council and Senate Committee against taking wrong decisions, which were against the provision of the law during the two failed exercises of 2020 and 2021. “An Acting Registrar will superintend over the new exercise. The Acting Vice-Chancellor is to forward to the Governor/Visitor through the Surrogate Council (Special Adviser on Education) the list of all the Deputy Registrars of Lagos State University for the purpose of appointing an Acting Registrar for the University. “The Governor/Visitor following the recommendation of the Special Visitation Panel, shall be setting up a full Visitation Panel for Lagos State University immediately.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .