A 34-year-old woman and her two children have been reportedly burnt beyond recognition in a gas explosion at Amekpa area, in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. The Guardian gathered that the incident occurred on Tuesday evening when the gas cylinder the deceased used in cooking suddenly exploded. The names of the woman and her children could not be ascertained as of the time of filing this report, but it was learnt that when the gas cylinder exploded, a section of the building housing two flats was razed down by the fire. It was also learnt that the husband of the deceased, who is a commercial tricycle operator, was not at home when the incident occurred. Some residents said the family had newly moved to the area from Warri. Eyewitnesses said that some residents and sympathisers who made frantic efforts to save the victims and put out the fire sustained injuries from the fire. The eyewitness explained that the inferno would have extended to neighbouring buildings but the prompt response from the personnel of the Delta State Fire Service in Ughelli saved the situation. The father of the deceased children had attempted to jump into the fire to save his family, but he was held back when it was discovered that the victims had already died. According to an eyewitness: “The man is a Keke driver and was the one that brought the children from school. He had just returned this evening to meet their home on fire. His wife and two children were inside the burning house. “He wanted to go inside if he could help rescue them, but neighbours held him down to allow firefighters and sympatisers to put off the fire. “While the woman died inside the kitchen where she was said to be cooking, her children were burnt in the parlour.” Occupants of the second flat, which was also razed down, were however lucky as the explosion occurred when they were out of their home. The bodies of the deceased have been reportedly evacuated to the mortuary at the Ughelli Central Hospital by officials of the fire service. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) DSP Edafe Bright, simply said: “I am not aware of the incident.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .