Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong at the Rayfield Golf Course. Golf enthusiasts during the week celebrated Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, with a tournament to mark his 58th birthday anniversary. The birthday ceremony climaxed with the golfing community in the state completing its triangular golf tournament in his honour at the Rayfield Golf Course, Jos. The tournament, which teed off at the Rhino Golf Club, Maxwell Phone Cantonment in Jos, saw golfers from different parts of the country joining to celebrate the governor, who is a golfer himself. On Saturday, the events shifted to the Lamingo Golf Club in Jos where many other golfers also participated, before the climax at the oldest golf club in Nigeria, the Rayfield Golf Club. Among the special guests at the tournament were Nasarawa State’s Deputy Governor, Emmanuel Akabe, Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, and DG ITF. Speaking at the closing ceremony, Governor Lalong said he was honoured by the golfing community in Plateau and Nigeria as a whole, adding that the show of love during his birthday was overwhelming. Lalong said the peoples’ response has encouraged him to do more for the state and continue to contribute to national development, adding, however, that the task of building Nigeria is the responsibility of all. Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, said the honour to Governor Lalong was well deserved because of his achievements in restoring peace in Plateau State, developing infrastructure and touching the lives of the people. He said Lalong has also shown tremendous interest in sports development by not only playing golf, but also ensuring other sports such as football in the state received attention. Commissioner for Information and Communication, Dan Manjang, on behalf of the organising committee said the triangular golf tournament clearly showed the level of respect and goodwill Governor Lalong has both within and outside the state. He thanked all those who supported the tournament and also reiterated that the administration of Governor Lalong would continue to carry everyone along in fulfilling its obligations to the citizens. The grand finale of the triangular tournament recorded an entry of 111 golfers, while Rhino and Lamingo Golf Clubs had 104 entries respectively. Captain of the Rayfield Golf Club, Retired Air Commodore Lazarus Mshelia, who spoke on behalf of Captains of the three clubs, said they decided to celebrate Lalong because of his passion for the game and the goodwill he has brought to the state with his all inclusive governance style. George Paul a product of David Mark Golf Academy emerged overall winner in category one handicap zero to 12 with 204 nets over three days, while Chuwang Dung of Rayfield Golf Club came tops in category two handicap 13 to 28 with a net score of 203 over 72 holes. Caleb Dajan won the best net in the veterans’ category with 213 net, just as Stephanie David won that of the Ladies category with 222 nets. Abuja Izang and Samuel Igyem came first and second respectively in the professional category. The Director-General, NIPPS, General Chukwuemeka Udaya and captains of the three organising clubs presented souvenirs to the governor as a mark of appreciation for his commitment to the growth and development of golf.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .