 [FILES] Oluwatobilola Amusan is one of Nigeria’s medals hopes  Commonwealth Games and two-time African champion, Tobi Amusan is expected to hit Team Nigeria’s camp for the U.S. Relay tour any moment from now. Also expected to join the camp are the trio of Chidi Okezie, Rosemary Chukwuma and Railwan Alowonle. But ‘tight event schedules’ may delay the duo of Blessing Okagbare and Divine Oduduru from linking up with the team. Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) President, Olamide George, who led Team Nigeria to the U.S. Relays tour, said in a message to The Guardian yesterday that Amusan, who won 100m hurdles gold medal at the 2018 Commonwealth as well as two-time African Games champion would join the camp after the Boston grand prix by Adidas on May 23. George hinted that the trio of Okezie, Rosemary Chukwuma and Alowonle would join Team Nigeria’s camp on Monday (May 17), a day before the country’s participation in the Relays event at AP Ranch in Dallas. Team Nigeria’s U.S. tour started at the PVAMU Invitational in Texas on Wednesday. The athletes are expected to return to Texas on May 25 for another event, before their last relay event in the tour of U.S. on May 29 in Florida. According to the AFN boss, Okagbare and Oduduru’s schedules availability will determine when to join Team Nigeria’s camp.Team Nigeria missed the World Relays in Poland two weeks ago due to visa issues. At the PVAMU Invitational at the Prairie View A& M University, Texas on Wednesday, Nigeria won the Mixed 4x 400m relay at 3:18.53 seconds ahead of the two American clubs, which ran 3:28.66, and 3:30.18 respectively. MEANWHILE, coach Mavuah Esabunor, George Obiano and Deji Aliu are expected to jet out to the U.S. next week to join the camp.AFN President Olamide George told The Guardian yesterday that the coaches and some athletes as well as officials would join the camp as soon as they get their visa next week. “Their passport were not among the ones originally sent to the U.S embassy for visa, but our officials are working on it back home with the help of the sports ministry and hopefully by next week, they will join us,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .