 PHOTO: GOOGLE  Tougher times are here and any pretension to the contrary has been ripped to shreds with Wednesday’s resolution of the governors giving full backing to complete deregulation of the downstream sector of the petroleum industry, which in effect may jerk the pump price of petrol to N385 per litre. The masses will face more challenging times in the coming months as government closes in on resolving the lingering downstream market deregulation crisis. Attempts to remove subsidy on the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) had severally been stalled with the government and organised labour locked in endless negotiation.
 
But on Wednesday night, the cash-starved governors recommended the immediate removal of petrol subsidy and proposed an over 130 per cent pump price increase, from N162 per litre to between N380 and N408.5.  At the time of this report, crude oil hovered around $66.38 per barrel and the exchange rate on the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) special window stood at N408 to a dollar. The indexes, therefore, brought retail pump price in the country to a higher band of about N250 per litre, which is inclusive of extant charges, like bridging fund, wholesalers’ margin, marine transport average, administration charge, transport allowance and retailers’ margin.	 
   
Should the price move to N380 per litre, the governors would have succeeded in adding N130 on every litre of petrol. Given that the country’s average actual consumption stands at about 60 million litre daily, the governors would have taxed consumers to the tune of N234 billion monthly.  Of the N601.110 billion FAAC that was shared in November 2020, the 36 state governments and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) received N171.167 billion while the local councils received N126.789 billion.
   
Raising a red flag, the Head of Retail Investments, Chapel Hill Denham, Ebo Ayodeji, warned that the unavoidable increase in the prices of PMS and electricity would ultimately worsen the inflation rate and the level of poverty.	  
   
Prof. Akpan Ekpo, an economist, also expressed worry that a higher pump price would worsen the already high Nigeria’s misery index, which would escalate social upheavals. He suggested that the declining revenues leave the government with no options than to pull the fuel subsidy plug.
  
The Guardian had reported that the federal and state governments are currently battling a serious liquidity crisis with some finding it difficult to pay existing debts just as fresh borrowing sources are becoming scantier. The country’s total public debts as of last December stood at N32.9 trillion.         
 
Speaking with The Guardian, Godwin Owoh, another professor of economics, pointed out the governors’ recommended price was as faulty as the NNPC-estimated landing cost, as the process of computation was not transparent.
  
While many have suggested that the governors’ recommendation was motivated by the urgent need to increase public revenues, he said it was faulty to leave the price of essential and extremely inelastic commodities completely to the dictate of market forces.
  
Even though he admitted that the government’s lean revenue cannot continue to accommodate fuel subsidy, he said the solution to the country’s challenge was “not in getting more revenues” but blocking the historical leakages.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .