 BUA Cement Plc  While costs of input appear a good alibi for cement manufacturers and dealers to justify high costs of the commodity, regulatory lapses in checking price gouging in the value chain, costly logistics drove by inflation and cyclic demand for real estate, fuelled by currency weakness and low yields from financial instruments are factors aggravating cement prices nationwide.  Already, the logistics arm of the cement business has already been outsourced by some of the players to avoid recurring issues on safety and fleet maintenance.
   
Checks by The Guardian showed that despite cement manufacturers recording N121.22 billion profit in the first quarter, due to sales volume and price hike, affordability of the commodity remains challenging, haven rose from N2,600 last November to about N4,000 per 50kg bag in many parts of the country.  The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) also confirmed input costs concerns in the manufacturing sector owing to access to foreign exchange for raw materials and inflationary trend in the country.  Although Lafarge’s EBITDA margin of 32.7 per cent in 2020 is well below the industry average (51.2 per cent), the company has made some strides in increasing the use of alternative fuels (biomass).
   
The cement manufacturers had earlier claimed that their ex-factory prices remained static, attributing the over N1,000 hike in prices to activities of retailers.  Director-General of the LCCI, Dr Muda Yusuf, urged caution in blaming manufacturers for the high cost of cement, noting that there is a limit to which cement producers can interfere in regulating costs from the retail and distribution value-chain. According to him, a shortfall in supply must be established to push the blame on manufacturers, considering that supply saturation is key to lower cement prices. The Guardian checks showed that the industry’s installed production capacity at 50.9 million metric tonnes is far more than domestic demand of an estimated 23.5 million tonnes pre-COVID-19, but capacity utilisation remains at about 51 per cent going by claims of poor domestic demand from industry players. “You cannot hold manufacturers responsible for whatever happens in the distribution value-chain, rather you look at consumers that are being exploited. Input costs are affecting a lot of things and this is becoming evident in prices of commodities in the Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) sector. You also need to consider the cost of logistics, especially now that diesel prices have increased. Once there is distortion in the value chain, costs are naturally passed to the end-users. All the dimensions need to be examined,” he added. An insider in the industry who craved anonymity told The Guardian that the ex-factory price of the commodity is not the same across different distributors, as the value-chain operators get different prices based on the volume of investment and commitment they are able to make to the manufacturer. The insider alleged that illicit funds were being invested in real estate businesses, hence driving the demand for the commodity, especially at the retail level. According to him, other commodities in the real estate sector are import-dependent and account for why steel prices have skyrocketed. With a slump in earnings of many states, the level of commitment to infrastructural development and projects has however dwindled. Analysts at Cordros Securities noted that the products of the three major producers in the country are not evenly distributed and easily accessible across the country’s geographical locations, resulting in high switching costs to the consumer. High switching cost to the consumer has been amplified by the industry’s oligopolistic structure, enabling industry players to dictate prices collectively.
   
“An oligopolistic market structure’s key feature is that the firms are usually interdependent, implying they cannot act independently of one another. Given the inelastic demand facing industry players amid high switching cost to consumers, the industry players can quickly raise prices to counteract cost pressures that will dampen margins,” they added.
  
Further analysis of the financial standings of the cement firms showed that Dangote ramped up production capacity in the Obajana Line 5 and resumed production at the Gboko plant to meet increased demand for its products.
  
Dangote Cement also increased the total volume of cement sold in the first three months of the year from its Nigerian operations to 4.9Mt compared to the 4.0Mt sold in the first quarter of 2020. Pan-African operations sold 2.6Mt of cement in the period under review compared to 2.3Mt sold in the corresponding period in 2020.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .