The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) has described President Muhammadu Buhari’s order to the Nigerian Army to ‘shoot on sight’ in the South East as “exhibition of insensitivity and cowardice.” It stated that the deployment of soldiers in the zone to carry out the “genocidal assignment” in Igbo land would bring more disaster to Nigeria, claiming that it was targeted at crushing Biafra agitators. MASSOB National Leader, Uchenna Madu, argued yesterday that the directive was part of the marginalisation Ndigbo was facing in Nigeria, stressing that the Presidency was “already jittery over the Biafra Day remembrance holding on May 30.” Insisting that the struggle for Biafra was beyond any military operation, Madu added that the style of the Muhammadu Buhari administration, which he described as  “worst ever”, was contributing to the agitation. He went on: “MASSOB wants President Buhari to continue to make similar blinded mistakes of this kind, which always express his frustrations. Any king, who thinks like Pharaoh of Egypt against the Jews, would certainly experience the doom of Pharaoh. “No man born of a woman can crush Biafra because God, history and humanities are on our side. Biafra’s revolution is indestructible. “MASSOB wishes to inform President Buhari that deploying his Nigerian military to Biafraland to carry out his shoot at sight order, arresting and detention of non-violent Biafra freedom fighters would not deter us. Killings, persecution, mesmerisation, suppression and oppression of Biafrans, including clampdown on non-violent and armless agitators because of our agitation for self-rule, only worsens the problem and underscores Nigeria as a creeping and repressive colonial state.” The MASSOB leader insisted that the agitating groups were the problem of the country, stating: “Biafra agitation is only a reaction to the many injustices, exclusion, second class citizenship, born-to-rule philosophy, marginalisation and other forms of inequality that characterise the Nigerian state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .