Billboard Music Award 2021: What You Need To Know The Billboard Music Awards are based on the chart period of March 21, 2020, through April 3, 2021. Two of the 51 categories are fan-voted, including top collaboration and social artist, where Asian acts dominate. Finalists include K-pop groups BTS, Blackpink, and Seventeen; Filipino boy band SB19; and Ariana Grande The awards show will air live on NBC May 23 from the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT. Last year’s awards took place in October after they were postponed from April because of the coronavirus pandemic. The man of the hour, The Weeknd, will celebrate his 16 nods with a performance, same as Pink who is receiving Billboard’s Icon Award. Alicia Keys is marking the 20th anniversary of her debut album “Songs In A Minor” with a performance of a medley of songs from the project. Korean pop group BTS will be debuting their new single “Butter” at the awards show. AJR, Bad Bunny and Karol G, DJ Khaled featuring H.E.R. and Migos, Duran Duran, Glass Animals, Jimmy Jam & Terry Lewis with Sounds Of Blackness featuring Ann Nesby and Twenty One Pilots will also perform. Drake, a 27-time Billboard Music Award-winner, will be honored as the artist of the decade. He has earned a number of accolades including nine No. 1 albums on the Billboard 200 chart (the most for any artist of the decade), 45 Top 10 hits on the Billboard Hot 100 (also the most for any artist of the decade). Pink will be honored with the Icon award. The “Raise Your Glass” singer is just the 10th person to receive the award. Others who’ve been recognized with it include Stevie Wonder, Michael Jackson, and Cher. Rapper Trae Tha Truth will be receiving the Change Maker award for his social justice work. The Houston rapper started a nonprofit organization “Angels By Nature” and helps kids in his communities every year on “Trae Day.” Billboard Music Award’s top artists The Weeknd, who has 16 nominations, and Drake with seven nods, are competing for top artistes. Other finalists include Taylor Swift and deceased rappers Juice WRLD and Pop Smoke. Excluding Drake, all of the top artist finalists are up for the top Billboard 200 album. Lil Baby rounds out the five finalists. Songs battling The Weeknd’s “Blinding Lights” for top Hot 100 song include DaBaby’s and Roddy Ricch’s “Rockstar,” Chris Brown and Young Thug’s “Go Crazy,” Gabby Barrett and Charlie Puth’s “I Hope” and “Mood” by 24kGoldn and Iann Dior. You can watch the show by tuning into NBC. If you subscribe to Peacock, NBC’s streaming service, you can also watch it live there or through services such as YouTube TV and Hulu Live TV. Nick Jonas will host the award show.