Simon Lalong Sports and Youth Development Minister, Sunday Dare and Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, have pledged to upgrade sports facilities at Baptist High School, Jos, to enable it to compete favourably with its contemporaries in the country. While Dare made the pledge at the Patterson Chapel of the school, the governor made his at the Government House, Little Rayfield, Jos, when the minister led some alumni of the school on a courtesy call to the governor. The event was part of the weeklong activities of the school’s 60 years of existence. Dare said while in the school, “I have seen the facilities and I will personally fix them. The old students association should liaise and give me the bill of quantities and I will in turn tell one of the governors to assist.” He said the sports ministry has re-introduced the Principal’s Cup in schools, which was dead for years. “The sports ministry has now brought back the Principal’s Cup, which for years now hasn’t been competed for. This is part of the ministry’s efforts to go to the grassroots and scout for players. “It involves all private and public schools across the country and I want Baptist High School to be a part of it. I assure you that scouts will abound. All you have to do is to put in your best and I will ensure you are selected to the national team. Tennis and boxing have also been added to the competition.” For Lalong disclosed that Baptist High School has produced great people, adding, as such, the school was worth celebrating. He promised to send a team from the state government to assess the sports facilities, assuring that he would do something about it. He was later presented with the anniversary tee-shirt, while the Deputy Governor, Prof. Sonni Tyoden and other state executive council members watched with delight. The minister’s promise to equip the school with modern sports facilities was necessitated by the Acting Principal of the school, Mrs. Comfort Anunobi, when she was delivering her speech of welcome. Anunobi had told the minister, among many other requests, that the school needs the sporting arena and facilities to be improved and a mini-stadium too.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .