With a recent focus on space missions and space exploration going intergalactic, there’s a renewed interest in the solar system and astronomy. To help families learn about the solar system and inspire the next generation of space explorers, this International Astronomy Day (15th May 2021), Canon Europe (www.Canon-europe.com) has collaborated with TV presenter, author and world-class astronomer Mark Thompson (https://bit.ly/3wj3nWw), to share his tips connected to Canon’s Creative Park.  2021 has already showcased remarkable human achievements, such as the landing of NASA’s Perseverance Rover on Mars and Space X’s continued Starlink Mission. With more news set to lift off this year, interest in space exploration has spiked, with Twitter citing a 41% increase in conversation around astronomy and the starsi. Amine Djouahra, Sales and Marketing Director at Canon Central and North Africa said, “Canon’s Creative Park has a wide selection of 3D space-themed (https://bit.ly/3hD9EIs) paper kits, wall hangings and planetary stickers to get creative with. Available to download for free and print from home, Creative Park helps families learn about space in a fun and engaging way.” Highlight assets include: Mark Thompson’s insightful astro tips include: To start your space journey, please visit: (https://bit.ly/3frrP16) For families eager to explore Creative Park’s space selection, Canon’s PIXMA range (https://bit.ly/3wiUBYp) of inkjet printers make the perfect companion, thanks to its creative capabilities. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media enquiries, please contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
e. Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Rania ElRafie
e. Rania.ElRafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei (https://bit.ly/3ftRshD) – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: www.Canon-CNA.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .