 AC Milan’s Swedish forward Zlatan Ibrahimovic eyes the ball during the Italian Serie A football match Juventus vs AC Milan on May 09, 2021 at the Juventus stadium in Turin. (Photo by Isabella BONOTTO / AFP)  Spartak Moscow forward Jordan Larsson, 23, has made only five international appearances but joins fellow youngsters Dejan Kulusevski and Alexander Isak in the 26-man squad. “I think we have a good mix in the squad,” said Andersson. “We have several experienced players who have a few competitions in the bank and a bunch of hungry young players who will be playing their first tournament. “That balance is important I think.” The 39-year-old Ibrahimovic returned to the Sweden team for two World Cup qualifiers in March, having initially retired from international football after Euro 2016. Sweden open their European Championship campaign against Spain in Seville on June 14, before further Group E games against Slovakia and Poland in Saint-Petersburg. “He (Ibrahimovic) was very disappointed, and so was I,” said Andersson. “It was two very disappointed people who spoke to each other. He wished us good luck and I wished him good luck in his recovery.” Jordan Larsson, whose father netted 37 times for Sweden, has scored 15 goals in 29 league appearances for Spartak this season, while Isak has scored 16 La Liga goals for Real Sociedad. Andersson will be hoping his side can build on their run to the 2018 World Cup quarter-finals, where they were knocked out by England. Sweden squad: Goalkeepers (3): Robin Olsen (Everton/ENG), Karl-Johan Johnsson (FC Copenhagen/DEN), Kristoffer Nordfeldt (Genclerbirligi/TUR) Defenders (9):
Ludwig Augustinsson (Werder Bremen/GER), Andreas Granqvist (Helsingborgs), Victor Lindelof (Manchester United/ENG), Filip Helander (Rangers/SCO), Emil Krafth (Newcastle/ENG), Mikael Lustig (AIK), Pontus Jansson (Brentford/ENG), Marcus Danielson (Dalian Pro/CHN), Martin Olsson (BK Hacken) Midfielders (9): Jens Cajuste (FC Midtjylland/DEN), Gustav Svensson (Guangzhou/CHN), Viktor Claesson (Krasnodar/RUS), Albin Ekdal (Sampdoria/ITA), Emil Forsberg (RB Leipzig/GER), Sebastian Larsson (AIK), Kristoffer Olsson (Krasnodar/RUS), Ken Sema (Watford/ENG), Mattias Svanberg (Bologna/ITA) Forwards (5): Marcus Berg (IFK Goteborg), Dejan Kulusevski (Juventus/ITA), Robin Quaison (Mainz/GER), Alexander Isak (Real Sociedad/ESP), Jordan Larsson (Spartak Moscow) Coach: Janne Andersson To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .