National President of NACCIMA, Saratu Aliyu The National Productivity Centre (NPC) is collaborating with the National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Mines, Industries and Agriculture (NACCIMA) to promote productivity awareness in the country. The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), which was sealed on the 4th of May, 2021 at the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industries (ACCI), aligned with the main function of the Centre. Speaking during the signing ceremony, the National President of NACCIMA, Saratu Aliyu, said the collaboration was influenced by the Association’s eagerness to take advantage of the programmes and products of the Centre giving the wealth of knowledge and experience of consultants it has and what associations and members of NACCIMA stand to benefit. On his part, the Director-General, National Productivity Centre, Dr. Kashim Akor thanked the NACCIMA National President for receiving the NPC delegates while he outlined the importance of the partnership to NPC and NACCIMA. He said as a Federal Government Agency, the Centre need all the support and cooperation of critical associations, bodies and organizations to help drive productivity improvement across the nation. Akor stated that the Centre creates productivity awareness, monitor productivity trends, measure productivity, build capacity for improvement and motivate individuals and organization on productivity, saying the Centre intends to give all the necessary assistance to NACCIMA members to improve their productivity level. The collaboration with NACCIMA is premised on the following programmes: installation of Productivity and Quality Improvement Programme (P&QIP) in its member’s businesses; consultancy services; productivity training/workshops; training on the applications of productivity solutions specialized software for enhancement of performance in its member’s businesses. NACCIMA on its part is saddled with the task of mobilising its members and create the enabling environment for the programmes to be deployed to the members appropriately. The collaboration aims to help NACCIMA members and businesses improve productivity levels and contribute immensely to the Nigerian Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The Director-General of the NPC was presented with an Ambassadorial award by the President of NACCIMA at the end of the signing of the MoU.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .