 [FILES] Rochas Okorocha. Photo/TWITTER/IAMJOEZY/REALROCHAS  Former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, has accused the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, of using the anti-kidnapping squad from the headquarters of the Nigeria Police to arrest his political associates. He, therefore, appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Alkali Usman, to release them and stop the further arrest of those people close to him. A statement by Okorocha’s Special Adviser (Media), Sam Onwuemeodo, said: “This is to inform the public that the government in Imo State, led by Governor Hope Uzodimma, has begun the indiscriminate arrest of Senator Rochas Okorocha’s political associates in the state, using the anti-kidnapping squad in the police headquarters. “The government had drafted a list of Okorocha’s political family members and has written petitions against those in the list, claiming that they are those helping to disorganise the state government. “This is absurd. And the annoying aspect of this whole episode is that the actors have forgotten that what they can do as human beings are grossly limited. God has the final say. “Imo State, as we speak, does not seem to be the same Imo that was created in 1976, which had, before now, remained peaceful, both during military and civilian administrations.” Also, in appealing to the President, Okorocha further said: “We appeal to Buhari and the IG to closely monitor what is happening in Imo. Arresting and detaining innocent citizens for no known offence do not add up. “President Buhari and the IGP should please save Imo from degenerating into a state where political power is unduly used to undo responsible citizens. Politically motivated intimidation is foreign to Imo politics. And one does not see it succeeding now.” “We call for the release of the gentlemen that had been arrested and detained on the basis of the petition by the state government.” But reacting, Senior Special Assistant (SSA), to the Governor on Print Media, Modestus Nwankpa, dismissed the allegation, insisting that the governor had no hand in the arrest. According to the SSA: “The security people are doing their job. Nothing concerns the governor.” The governor has put in place and provided adequate security in line with his constitutional mandate. If Senator Okorocha is mentioning the governor’s name, it means he has something he is hiding.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .