 Abiodun. Photo/TWITTER/DABIODUNMFR  Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that the state government is looking for investors that will develop the 250-bed hospital in Abeokuta to a world class health facility capable of providing quality healthcare services to the people. The governor also invited investors to collaborate with the government on major infrastructural development projects under its public-private sector partnership arrangement. Abiodun, who stated these at the Nigerian-British Chambers of Commerce (NBCC) webinar with the theme, “Meet the Governor of Ogun State: Investment and Business Opportunities, said that the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu, needed attention to bring it to standard and prevent brain-drain. The governor, who lauded the partnership with the British Government in setting up a multimodal mass transport system for the state, said the administration was determined to provide 3,000 affordable housing units across the state in first instance before 2023. He also disclosed that the state would host an investment summit, themed ‘OGUN #ISEYA21: Becoming Africa’s Model Industrial & Logistics Hub’ between July 12 and July 13, 2021, which aimed at providing a platform for collaboration with potential domestic and foreign investors. IN another development, Abiodun, yesterday, launched the State Civil Justice Transformation Lab Draft Strategy. Abiodun, at the launch of the strategy, said that the new justice mechanism would lead to improved and effective dispute resolution and justice in the state. He said that the rationale behind the establishment of the strategy was to make Ogun the safest place to work, live and do business in the country. Noting that efficient and effective administration of justice is an important pillar of access to justice and, by extension, a key indicator towards the ease of doing business in any society.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .