 [files] AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. Photo; TWITTER/INSIDEKWARA  Stakeholders in the state, The Guardian gathered, came to the meeting with testimonials of the administration’s impact on their lives. The Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, disclosed that top politicians, a former state and national legislators, House of Assembly members, and heads of federal and state parastatals from the three senatorial districts also attended the event. From victims of the recent #EndSARS protests to artisans, the physically challenged, businessmen, farmers, private school owners and civil servants, the governor received widespread accolades for his impactful reign, empathetic leadership, apolitical governance and support for every segment of the state. Community and political leaders took turns to commend AbdulRazaq for bringing development to their areas after decades of neglect, acknowledging the far-reaching impact his spending on basic healthcare facilities, water, rural roads, schools and safety nets for the underprivileged had across the state within two years. A representative of the victims of looted properties during the #EndSARS protests, Ahmed Lawal, commended the governor for coming to their aid. In the same vein, representative of Persons With Disability (PWDs), Bashir Yusuf, admitted that the government was supporting them through various interventions, including the procurement of artificial limbs or prosthesis to many of those in need of it. Kwara APC Chairman, Alhaji Abdullahi Samari, urged the residents to support the AbdulRazaq administration. “We called this meeting to assess what the governor has done for the past two years and tell him where to focus on for the next two years. This administration is doing a lot to better the lot of the people and Governor AbdulRazaq will not disappoint you,” he said. On his part, the House of Assembly Speaker, Yakubu Salihu, said: “Whoever says no to AbdulRazaq is saying no to the development and progress of Kwara. He is doing well in various sectors.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .