 Kehinde Asaniyi, father, Rufus Asaniyi and mother, Rachel Asaniyi  He said: “I’m a retired headteacher. I retired in 2019. I used 32 years in the village to ensure that my children have a bright future. All we were doing was to ensure that they do well and make sure they succeed. We were looking up to him to lift up his siblings.
  
Taiwo rose up and went to Nigerian Defence Academy. He was the pillar that we were all looking up to. He had hoped he would lift all his siblings. That hope is dimmed. The only thing that can bring happiness is for the government to employ his siblings who are jobless.
 
“His siblings have no jobs.  His twin sister ought to have married but she could not because she has no job. If they give me billions of Naira, it is nothing unless his siblings are given jobs”.  “We expected that he would be there for us after my retirement. His twin sister has served for a very long time without a job.  That is why she has not married. She said she did not want to suffer after marriage.
 
“Government should give jobs to his twin sister and siblings. He was the pillar of the family. We expected that he would lift up his siblings. By next February, I will retire. We had hoped that we would rely on him after retirement. Taiwo,  why did you just leave us in shock,” she added.
  
Similarly, Taiwo’s elder sister, Oluwatoyin Olaoye, who works at the Ministry of Defence, Mokola could not control her emotion while narrating what the officer meant to the family.  “He had asked me to meet with the parents of his wife-to-be so that the necessary arrangements could be made for the wedding. He was supposed to go for a course in the UK on June 12 this year. Which had been approved. Since he was to go for that course, anytime they wanted to fly the top echelon in Nigeria,  he would be the one to do that”. When asked about the expectations of the family from the Federal Government, she said:” It is well. God will judge. I have other siblings. My pay is not enough to take care of them. I’m working with the Ministry of Defence in Mokola, Ibadan. How much is my salary? His twin sister,  Kehinde does not have a job. The younger Taiwo is still at Kwara State University, where we are paying over N300, 000. The younger Kehinde graduated from the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA). The late Taiwo had asked the younger Kehinde to come to Abuja for his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme so that she could stay with the deceased’s wife-to-be. He had promised to send the younger Kehinde abroad for her Master’s Degree.  His fiancee, Oluwadunjoye Victoria Olubunmi works at a financial institution in Lagos.
 
Bunmi has written an emotional tribute disclosing the awesome moments they shared together. Tweeting through @bunmioladuntoye on Sunday, Ms. Oladuntoye said she did not regret accepting his marriage proposal. She wrote, “Femi, I have no regrets walking this journey with you. You asked me to be your wife last year in August and I gave you a resounding yes.
 
“One of the last things you said to me was to keep on being humble and continue to give. You were a giver, oh you were such a giver.
 
Speaking in the Yoruba language, she said “Femi mi, Olowo ori mi”.  Apart from the fiancée and aged parent, Olufemi left behind four siblings who are Mrs. Oluwatoyin Olaoye (nee Asaniyi), Miss Kehinde Oluremi Asaniyi (his twin sister),  Olusola Taiwo Asaniyi and Miss Kehinde Oluwaseun Asaniyi.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .