Onyemelukwe A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) aspirant in the November 6, governorship election in Anambra State, Chidi Onyemelukwe, has pledged to complete all viable projects abandoned by successive administrations if voted as governor. She disapproved the development where each administration abandoned projects of their predecessors and embarked on fresh ones and vowed to change the narrative. Onyemelukwe, who stated this yesterday at Umueze–Anam at a meeting with Anambra West Council statutory delegates of the party, argued that governance at the centre and state levels had been hobbled by inconsistent implementation of master plans. She argued that since governance was a continuum, there was no pressure for her to discontinue viable projects initiated by previous administrations, bearing in mind that the peoples’ money had been invested, lamenting, however, that citizens do not reap the benefits of such investments if projects remain uncompleted. “We will execute our own policies and programmes. We will adopt an integrated approach to governance, whereby thorough assessment of projects’ viability from fiscal and economic viewpoints, will be made and those that pass the benchmark will be continued,” she said. Onyemelukwe, who was PDP’s deputy governorship candidate in 2017 and former Special Assistant to President Olusegun Obasanjo on Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), said she intended to run a lean, efficient and SME-oriented government. “This will free up resources, which will be rechanneled to people–oriented projects. Our government will ensure that internally generated revenue (IGR) is driven with innovativeness and technology, improved upon and efficiently managed. “We are committed to running an accountable and transparent government. Once we meet certain governance thresholds, we will qualify for and be more attractive to our development partners for inflow of foreign and domestic investments and grants, which would help us to better serve our people,” she added. She stressed that Anambra State had done it before and would do it again by the mercies of God.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .