It was the recently concluded party’s Revalidation/Registration exercise that restored unity in the Enugu State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). All along, the party had wobbled in crisis of factionalization. Unfortunately, it was the state congress that held in 2018 that threw up the factions.
While Dr. Ben Nwoye, who is the current Caretaker Committee Chairman in the state led the nucleus of the party, those aggrieved with his leadership style pitched tent with Chief Okey Ogbodo. The crisis started when aggrieved members, majority of who were serving sanctions over certain infractions committed against the party invaded the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, venue of the state congress with heavily armed thugs and chased away delegates and in return announced Ogbodo (who was not registered with the party) as their new “chairman”. The main plank of party members however, returned to the stadium the next day to continue the exercise and re-elected Nwoye as chairman with other state executives. That was the development that infused crisis as the two camps worked at cross-purposes. While the Nwoye group, which enjoyed the support of the national leadership operated from the state secretariat of the party, the aggrieved group, which enjoyed the support of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, operated from the residence of Ogbodo. Ogbodo group initiated suits in courts on the outcome of the congress and the rightful claimant to the leadership of the party. They carried their love lost into the 2019 general elections and filled parallel candidates. They opened parallel campaign offices and ran parallel campaigns. At the end of the exercise, the party lost woefully. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) retained all elective seats in the state. Jonathan Zwingina committee to the rescue
WHILE the crisis festered, the party at the national level dissolved its state chapters and appointed Caretaker Committees to run its affairs pending the conduct of another congress. Nwoye, whose tenure was still running before the dissolution profited from the exercise. He was sworn in as chairman of Caretaker Committee for the state. There was also a directive for those who filed cases against the party in court to discontinue and withdraw same to pave way for their resolutions using the internal mechanism of the party. Ogbodo and few members of his group who had taken the party to court did not oblige the order. This led to their expulsion. The Nwoye committee had attempted a healing process by setting up the Contact and Mobilization committee. This was amplified by the arrival of Senator Jonathan Zwingina-led Registration/Revalidation Committee for the state, which insisted on dealing with members through the state Caretaker Committee. As part of their assignment, they had summoned a meeting of members at the party’s Secretariat, where they extracted firm commitment of all that the “war” was over and that they would work together to ensure a brighter future for the party in the state beginning with the registration/revalidation exercise. The move indeed, paid off with the outcome of the exercise. Zwingina, who addressed party stakeholders at the Secretariat on the conclusion of his assignment, announced that 180,291 new members were registered in Enugu State, attributing the feat to hard work and return of unity in the state chapter. He said the figure was three times more than what the state registered in 2017 when the registration exercise was held. APC according to him registered 64,000 new members then. He asked the stakeholders to sustain the peace and reconciliation in the party, enthusing that it had far more benefits on the long run than what was obtainable at the moment. Peace threatened?
HOWEVER, few weeks after the conclusion of the registration/revalidation exercise, the party seems not to be at ease. Sound beats emanating from Enugu north indicate that all is not well. It would appear that the combatants have perfected plots to return to their familiar path of perfidy. At the nucleus of the fresh discontent is the zoning of offices in the party ahead of its state congress. A state Caretaker Committee meeting that reportedly invited former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, former senator Ayogu Eze, former Ambassador Fidel Ayogu and former Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly, Eugene Odoh, had held last week with the resolution to continue with rotation of offices in the party. They had zoned governorship position to Enugu East; chairman of the party to Enugu West and deputy governorship to Enugu North among other officials at the state level. The idea was to reduce friction and deepen the hold of the party in the state. The development did not sink well with some party stalwarts from Enugu North senatorial zone, which met on Sunday at the residence of Chief George Ogara at Unadu in Igboeze south council of the state and vehemently rejected the decision. Odoh, who chaired the meeting, had told reporters that they rejected the zoning as state executive from the district as stakeholders were not carried along in the zoning arrangement of the party. Odoh stated that the decision to reject the zoning arrangement was because “Nwoye and few others will not stay in their bedrooms and announce zoning arrangements for APC members in the state” He stated that; “Enugu North district (Nsukka zone) has over 50 per cent of APC faithful in the state,” adding that, “It is unfair and amounts to marginalization to discuss issue of zoning positions without carrying the district along.” He added: “So stakeholders after deliberation on the issue unanimously rejected the zoning arrangements that allocated governorship position to Enugu East district, state party chairman to Enugu West district and retain Secretary position to Enugu North district among others. 
 
“This meeting has directed our members in the district to ignore the so-called zoning arrangement and contest any position of their choice. If Nwoye-led state executive likes, it should fix meetings where executive and stakeholders in the state will discuss issue of party positions and zoning arrangements as it was done in the past. This is the position of stakeholders in Enugu North senatorial district, which comprises party chieftains, state, local governments and ward executives, “Odo added. 
 
He said that Enugu north district would not settle for anything less than the chairman of APC in Enugu State and one national executive position in any zoning arrangement. He added that the meeting approved the “election” of Dr. Simon Ideka, a former Commissioner of Health in the state who is from Aku in Igboetiti local government as the new Zonal Chairman of the party in Enugu North district. He said Ideka would replace Mr. Emecheta Okwu.  Ayogu, who joined the party shortly after he was dropped as commissioner, under Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi was said to have started mobilizing for the position until he was told that the position would move to Enugu West. Feeling shortchanged, he was said to have railroaded the support of Odo and Ogara in the project to insist that the position should go to Enugu North.
 
Enugu North’s Zonal Publicity Secretary of the party, Ifedioranma Okeme, while distancing the zone from the resolutions of the purported meeting held at Ogara’s house, stated that it was targeted at inciting the Enugu North Zone against the Caretaker Committee leadership in the state, as there was never a time such decision was taken.  He said: “We have worked so hard to unite the party and on that prism, I am pleading with those who hatched the plan to retreat. We have all paid for factionalization of the party and we don’t need any more factions. What happened at that meeting never existed? It is a hoarse. It is like wanting to classify someone a fake king. It is a huge joke.  See what transpired at that meeting as mere entertainment.
 
“I am shocked that my good friend and brother, Eugene Odo will be part of this nonsense. Odo was House leader and number one lawmaker in Enugu State at a time. He knows that laws are made by appropriate bodies authorized to make laws.  When the laws are made and you don’t like it, you follow due process to challenge it. Odoh is aware we have a Caretaker Committee and they are aware that a body empowered by the constitution of the party held a meeting in Enugu with fully represented members of the party unanimously taking resolutions.
 
“Someone from Enugu West during that meeting moved a motion on the zoning formula and someone from Enugu North senatorial district seconded the motion. The motion was that the chairman be zoned to the West and deputy chairman to Enugu east; that governorship be zoned to Enugu East and deputy to Enugu north senatorial district. That motion having been moved and properly seconded was also carried unanimously without a single objection.  MEANWHILE, Enugu West senatorial zone, where the chairmanship position is zoned has said the arrangement has reduced rancor that would have been associated with the Congress. At their meeting held in Oji River local government at the weekend, they insisted that nothing should be done to alter the arrangement, even as they hailed the state Caretaker Committee for zoning the chairmanship position to Enugu West.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .