 Photo/DESIMONE  Consequently, the trustees said the family has endorsed the appointment of Lagoon Park Global Resources Limited as the family’s current and authentic attorney. The Board of Trustees made up of its Chairman, Alhaji Adio Kassim Lumosa, Vice Chairman, Chief G. O. Fasetire, the Secretary, Mr. Temilola Adesanya, and the Treasurer, Chief Shafiu Kassim Lumosa made this clarification at a press conference held at Abeokuta, Ogun state. The trustees alleged that the former attorney acted improperly, and was no longer working in the best interest of the family. They disclosed that since 1955, the courts have been appointing members of trustees for the estate of late Madam Efunroye Tinubu, adding that the current trustees were appointed in 2002 by the high court of Lagos state Ikeja Judicial Division. The trustees added that the former attorney was appointed in August 2012 but his appointment was revoked in April 2017 over alleged refusal to render an account of stewardship to the family. They lamented that despite the revocation, the firm and its Director, still parade as their attorney. Consequently, the family states: “Adamakin investment and works limited and its director, Akindele, remain revoked as an attorney and shall never be reinstated as an attorney to the Estate of Late Madam Efunroye Tinubu.” The trustees stated that the suit filed against the firm and its director before the Ogun state high court was withdrawn to avoid duplication of cases as a similar suit filed before the Lagos high court still subsist, adding that it would be vigorously pursued until the trustees obtain justice for the family and recover what was due to it. The family said the police are currently investigating the alleged unlawful activities of the former attorney, warning that anybody dealing with the company and its directors on behalf of the trustees is doing so at his or her own peril. However, in a statement issued by the Sobowale family, signed by Mr. Sulaiman Sanni, the family stated that the power of Attorney granted to Adamakin Investment and Works Limited by the Trustees of the Estate of Madam Iyalode Efunroye Tinubu is still subsisting. “We also categorically and unequivocally dissociate ourselves from the subterranean and ill-motive activities of Lagoon Park Global Resources Ltd in relation to the Estate of Madam Efunroye Tinubu and the public is hereby warned not to deal with them in relation to any transaction in respect of Madam Iyalode Efunroye Tinubu Estate,” the statement added. The statement accused Lagoon Park Global Resources Ltd of organising a phantom press conference where it ensured that Mr Gabriel Fasetire, a member of the trustee, who had been ill and lacks the capacity to discharge his responsibility, as trustee was co-opted into the conference to give it an air of legitimacy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .