Dr. George Uduku appointed LCT General Manager for GE Healthcare West Africa (www.GEHealthcare.com); Dr. Uduku, a medical doctor by training, brings more than a decade of executive healthcare and venture capital experience in the U.S. and Africa; Appointment underscores GE’s localization efforts and commitment to West Africa.  GE (NYSE: GE) General Electric today announced the appointment of Dr. George Uduku, a Nigerian national, as the General Manager for West Africa covering Nigeria, Ghana Sierra Leone and Liberia. George will lead the geographic teams and help enable rigorous growth through a focus on execution, team culture and customer experience as a key differentiator.  George is a highly regarded leader and expert with more than 10 years of executive healthcare experience in the United States and Africa. In addition to working with multinationals in the healthcare technology space, he worked in venture capital where he conducted specific disease state market analysis, competitive landscape evaluations and investment opportunity screening.  George received his medical degree from University of Calabar College of Medical Sciences Nigeria and completed his Master of Business Administration with distinction at Hult International Business School Boston, with concentrations in Strategy and Entrepreneurship.  Commenting on George Uduku’s appointment, Eyong Ebai, General Manager, GE Healthcare, Sub-Saharan Africa, said: “George’s appointment is testament to our localization efforts and our ongoing commitment to West Africa. I am confident that with his leadership, we are even more strongly positioned to deliver the highest quality solutions and services that support our customers growth and profitability as well as enable universal healthcare across the continent.”  Dr. Uduku, added: “Improving access to quality healthcare is a key priority for the governments of West Africa, and GE Healthcare has a proud history of providing transformational medical technologies and services that have shaped a new age in patient care. I am honored to join GE Healthcare at such a pivotal time for the healthcare industry and thrilled to be leading the very talented team in West Africa.”  GE Healthcare has been a committed partner to the healthcare sector in Africa for more than 100 years. Today in West Africa, nearly 6000 GE Healthcare technologies are deployed in hospitals and clinics across the markets. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of GE. About GE:
GE (NYSE: GE) is the world’s leading Digital Industrial Company, transforming industry with software-defined machines and solutions that are connected, responsive and predictive. GE is organized around a global exchange of knowledge, the “GE Store,” through which each business shares and accesses the same technology, markets, structure and intellect. Each invention further fuels innovation and application across our industrial sectors. With people, services, technology and scale, GE delivers better outcomes for customers by speaking the language of industry. www.GE.com 
 
About GE Healthcare:
GE Healthcare is the $16.7 billion healthcare business of GE (NYSE: GE). As a leading global medical technology and digital solutions innovator, GE Healthcare enables clinicians to make faster, more informed decisions through intelligent devices, data analytics, applications and services, supported by its Edison Ecosystem. With over 100 years of healthcare industry experience and around 50,000 employees globally, the company operates at the center of an ecosystem working toward precision health, digitizing healthcare, helping to drive productivity and improve outcomes for patients, providers, health systems and researchers around the world. Follow us on Facebook (www.facebook.com/GEHealthcare/), LinkedIn (www.linkedin.com/company/gehealthcare), Twitter (twitter.com/GEHealthcare) and Insights (www.GEHealthcare.com/insights), or visit our website www.GEHealthcare.com for more information. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .