 Festus Okoye  In spite of the heighten insecurity situation across the country, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has vowed to continue with preparation and readiness to conduct 2023 and other terminal elections. INEC has fixed February 18, 2023 for the presidential election while promising to release timetable for the National Assembly and governorship elections in November this year. National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, INEC, Barr. Festus Okoye made the declaration yesterday, during a stakeholders’ meeting on polling units in Kano. Okoye, while responding to concern raised by stakeholders on whether INEC will still hold elections in places ravaged by insurgency, kidnapping and other security threats, insisted that the electoral body was not in control of security architecture of the country, the commission will forge ahead with preparation for the conduct of elections as entrusted by the Constitution. The National Commissioner explained that INEC is prepared to create conducive atmosphere for Nigerians to exercise their civic responsibility adding that improved security situation can only be guaranteed by the concern agencies with the support of Nigerians. He explained that the creation of additional polling units across the country was in line with electoral act to decongest voting units with more than 5,000 voters. Earlier, Resident Electoral Commissioner, INEC, Kano, Professor Riskuwa Arabu Shehu, explained that 3,148 additional polling units were created within the 44 councils of the state. Shehu declared that Kano State currently has 5,457,747 registered voters with 8,074 already existing polling units. Meanwhile, INEC in Bauchi State has moved to create an additional 1,349 polling units across the 20 councils of the state to ease bottlenecks during casting of votes and ensure compliance with COVID-19 protocol. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Alh. Ibrahim Abdullahi, said all existing 174 expanded polling units are to be confirmed as polling units, in addition to the proposed new ones to make voting more convenient for voters, as well as follow COVID-19 preventive protocol. Abdullahi, who stated this during a stakeholders meeting at the weekend, said the essence was to make the electoral process easier for people, adding that some polling units may be relocated to more appropriate areas for ease of accessibility. As at the 2019 general election, the state has a total of 2,462,843 registered voters, 212 registration areas comprising 4,074 polling units as well as 1,349 convertible polling units, which have been recommended for upgrading and relocation as the case may be. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .