Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru, our new Chief of Army Staff, who succeeded Lt. General Burutai met his untimely death less than a fortnight ago. And the death that took him was not actually his death. That death was designed for someone else. But the one who is now gone untimely had to go untimely. I am issuing these words from the spiritual realm. The young man, the young army general of radiance, had to go when it was not his departure time. We tried to stop it, but something untoward happened because something untoward happened. Ask me no questions in order to avoid spiritual fibs and speculations. In any case, we don’t dwell on fibs and speculations.…. I am writing what you are reading now away from home. And when I say away from home I mean simply that I am not within the vicinity and premises of my very well equipped writing laboratory where I contemplate and meditate and converse fruitfully richly and rebelliously – on some occasions – with the Supreme Spiritual Masters of Merit. If you have been reading me here time after time you will understand and appreciate without qualms what I am saying here and what I wish to say further. But I am not really in my elements. Yet I must lose my tongue a little anyhow. In February, something dreadfully dreadful would have happened in our country my country your country. Because it was not going to profit us all, it was averted. Among the deathless avatars of avatars and masters of masters there are rebels who, however, still subscribe to the command of hierarchy. In spite of their rebellious objection, the will of the hierarchical command prevailed. And Nigeria was spared what it was spared. I am speaking esoterically – if not in tongues. Am I suspending you? Yes or no, suspend your disbelief. Soon we shall see what we shall see. Very soon we shall see what we shall see – dreadfully and not dreadfully. Further confusion, you may exclaim. Yes, further confusion. But why not when we live in a country of confusion upon confusion always birthing confusion upon confusion and contradiction upon contradiction? By Jove! Early this year I published here aspects of the prophecy of Primate Prophet Theophilus Olabayo of the Evangelical Church of Yaweh. If I remember very well or very accurately, I spiced the great Christian prophet’s prophecy with snippets from the other-worldly realm. But I did so as an under-cover spiritual contemplator and meditator. A significant aspect of Primate Olabayo’s prophecy related to the erstwhile military service chiefs who stubbornly over-stayed in their respective posts. Whether they read me here then or not, or whether their attention was drawn or not to what was foreseen and said, they were spiritually clever enough to get themselves bailed out from the vehicle of the fate that befell Buratai’s successor who was determined to stabilize our country my country your country. Attahiru’s death was not his, I say it again, but now that it has happened we must accept it as his. Unfortunately so, but it was the will of the Will. That we now must accept it as his is, however, not the end of the story. What will the end of the story look like? What will the end of the story be? On this, mum is and must be the word. I am volunteering nothing from the great paradise of spiritual revelations. What will be, will be, however. It surely will and must be. Not sooner. Not later. But at the appointed time. Am I speaking or communicating in riddles and puzzles? Not exactly. I am only relating what it’s my appointed duty to relate from the skies of the deathless spirits. An interesting gem relating to our ebullient and bubbling COAS Ibrahim Attahiru and other generals and military officers who went down and out with him pertains to the absence of their appointer-in-chief at their funeral. It was an absence that spoke volumes to our compatriots, several of whom have condemned the unpatriotic lapse, to put it mildly. The cock-and-bull story given for the damning absence will remain a cock-and-bull story forever. That some government officials such as governors and their cronies even frolicked and gallivanted in parties and other useless social events at the time of the funeral of the lost patriotic generals and officers cannot but be cited as another national spiritual sin committed by the political lords in power. What our pretender-in-chief and his acolytes have demonstrated once again is this: they care for none but themselves alone – these rogues and scoundrels of “heartless condolences” and givers of “heartless condolences.” Anybody and everybody can be used and dumped and kept in the dudgeon at anytime. No wahala. But wahala dey. And wahala dey come. Believe me, yours sincerely. All the nice things said so far by some leading political gladiators about the COAS and his fellow fallen colleagues and officers are useless things by outstandingly nice-less moral and political hypocrites. Their cup has since run and runneth over. Believe me, yours very sincerely. Really, really, whatever they do or do not do, whatever they say or do not say, the scoundrels, all of them riding roughshod on our compatriots everywhere in the land will encounter their waterloo and their waterloo will encounter them. No volume and volume of human sacrifices and sacrifices can halt the ripe deluge already here. No one can hoodwink the succulent deluge. It is already here. It is already here. It is already here. Believe me handsomely and robustly so, as I utter the utterances and utterances of the Supreme Spiritual Masters of Retributive Justice (SSMRJ). And know you all: retributive justice never fails; its law is natural and unalterable. The spiritual enforcers see to this diligently. Run. Fly. Swim. Jump. Hide. Sleep. Be awake. No matter what, the law will find you and get to you. Soon I shall return to my rich laboratory of contemplation after I have been buoyantly replenished. And there will be revelations that are revelations you yearn for. Meanwhile, rejoice. Rejoice! Join this patriotic columnist to rejoice for our fatherland your fatherland my fatherland. Afejuku can be reached via 08055213059.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .