[FILES] This picture taken on January 19, 2021 shows detail on the forehead of Miraitowa, (Photo by Philip FONG / AFP) Japan’s government is expected to widen a virus state of emergency Friday, just 10 weeks before the Tokyo Olympics, as campaigners submitted a petition with more than 350,000 signatures urging the Games be scrapped. With Tokyo and other areas already under emergency orders until the end of May, three more regions — including northern Hokkaido, which will host the Olympic marathon — are set to join them. The widening emergency, aimed at combatting a fourth wave which is putting Japan’s medical system under strain, comes with public opinion firmly opposed to holding the Games this summer, fearing further infections. Kenji Utsunomiya, a former candidate for Tokyo governor, urged Games organisers to “prioritise life” as he submitted the 351,000-signature petition to city authorities. “I think the Olympics this time is about whether we prioritise life or a ceremony and event called the Olympics,” Utsunomiya said, urging Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike to push for cancellation. The petition is also being sent to the IOC and International Paralympic Committee (IPC) as well as local organisers and the national government. “Holding the Olympics under these circumstances means precious medical resources have to be set aside for the Games,” Utsunomiya warned. On Thursday, a doctors’ union warned it was “impossible” to hold the Games safely during the pandemic, but organisers say virus countermeasures will keep the athletes and Japanese public safe. In an interview with AFP, International Paralympic Committee chief Andrew Parsons acknowledged Japanese “anger” over the Games. But he said strict rules, including daily testing and limited movement for athletes, meant the chance they could infect anyone was “really remote”. “We want to provide this feeling of certainty,” Parsons said. “Because we see that the anger comes from this concept that it’s the Japanese population’s safety versus the Games. I believe they can coexist.” ‘Afraid’ of the Games 
In recent days, organisers have held a string of successful test events, including with international athletes, which they say shows their protocols will work. World Athletics chief Sebastian Coe, who attended test events in Japan last week, said no major sports event so far has been a “super-spreader”. “The world does need to keep moving,” Coe wrote in the Daily Mail. “At a time when football, rugby, tennis and athletics are all back functioning, and crowds slowly returning, it would seem odd to pull stumps on an Olympic Games where the protocols will be tougher than in any other walk of life and many competitors and their support teams will be arriving having been vaccinated,” he added. In Japan, however, one of the country’s most prominent businessmen, SoftBank CEO Masayoshi Son, said he is “afraid” of the Games going ahead. “I am very much afraid of having the Olympics,” he told CNBC. “Not just Japan, but many countries they’re having still a big, tough situation, I don’t know how they can support sending athletes.” In recent days several top Japanese sports stars, including tennis Grand Slam-winner Naomi Osaka and Masters champion Hideki Matsuyama, have expressed reservations about holding the Games during the pandemic. Utsunomiya said the petition would continue to gather signatures “until the cancellation is announced”, and brushed aside concerns about the cost of scrapping the massive event. “People’s lives are more important than money,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .