Yemi Morafa and Fiyin Gambo’s latest cinematic flick, The Wait, carry on the message of perseverance and hope to viewers, as it hit theatres countrywide. The movie, which navigates the terrains of life’s delays and disappointments and the overarching need for steadfastness, is an emotional portrayal of humanity in its most intimate form. Cast of the wait  The brilliance of the movie can also be traced to The Waiting Room, a novel by the movie’s Executive Producer, Yewande Zaccheaus, which became the basis of adaptation. It was beautifully written to show the interconnectivity of the lives of different characters as they wait for things they hope for. It was written as a result of her personal testimony and to encourage couples experiencing a delay in childbearing. One of the highly anticipated movies coming out of Nollywood this year, The Wait, which is directed by the dynamic duo Yemi “Filmboy” Morafa and Fiyin Gambo and co-produced by Eventful limited and LordTanner Studios, will take over the cinemas on April 30, 2021. The film, tells the story of Doctor Nara, played by the irrepressible and super talented Nse Ikpe-Etim, two couples and a job seeker whose lives are unintentionally woven together by the unwitting hands of time and chance as they journey towards their desire to find love, hope, help, redemption and the fulfilment of their desperate desires This intense drama that will take through a roller coaster of emotions has a star-studded cast including Deyemi Okanlawon, Meg Otanwa, Jimmy Odukoya, Ini Dima-Okojie, Chimezie Imo, Kate Henshaw, Joke Silva and others. The Wait is a topical, yet superb visual and dramatic expression intended to capture the human experience of Waiting. It was beautifully written to show the interconnectivity of the lives of different characters as they wait for things they hope for. The movie’s premiere, which bagged support from firms such as Ecobank Nigeria, LIRS and Eventful, witnessed non-profit Aneden Gives, in conjunction with the filmmakers, announce a fertility grant for families living in Lagos Nigeria. The partnership has developed an application and patient selection process to provide fertility grants for families in Lagos. Five families would be granted N200,000 for initial testing at the George’s Memorial Medical Center, while one family would receive a grant of up to N1,500,000 for further fertility treatments.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .