 Balogun  It was complaints galore as aggrieved members of the Lagos State chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) recounted their harrowing experience during last Saturday’s council primaries of the party.  IN Ikate-Itire Local Council Development Area (LCDA) and Somolu Local Government, the Returning Officers, Mr. Lateef Ibirogba, and his counterpart, Amida Abudu, were attacked on their way to the venue of the exercise.
 
The incumbent council chairman, Ahmed Apatira, who is seeking re-election, was accused of instigating the attack following fears of imminent loss.	 
 
He, however, denied the accusation, stressing that there was no way he could have instigated the crisis, since according to him, those attacked were his supporters, including the battered officials.  It was recorded that the electorate actually came out early in the morning but was later scattered by some sponsored hoodlums. This affected all the seven wards across the local government area.
   
Majority of the aspirants, especially for the chairmanship position, are calling on the leadership of the party to re-schedule primaries for the area.	 
   
Prince Abiodun Ogunji, the incumbent vice-chairman, Agege Local Government, who is also an aspirant, decried activities of hoodlums during the primary elections. “There was no election in Agege. We want the election to be rescheduled with thorough supervisions from the leaders,’’ he said.  BUT in spite of the violence recorded in many places, the exercise was peaceful at Ikorodu Local Government and its five Local Council Development Councils (LCDAs), though not without some challenges like delay in the arrival of electoral officers and election materials.
 
One of the leaders of the party and member of the Governors’ Advisory Council (GAC), Bashorun Olorunfunmi,	 described the exercise as peaceful.
   
He said the people were voting for council chairman of their party, which according to him was a proper thing in a democracy.  According to him, “There is nothing strange because the so-called leaders were first members of APC before they became leaders and they also have the right to support their preferred candidates.”
 
According to him, “Our national leader was forced to make a statement that he did not have any preferred candidate. He also said where consensus is impossible they can go for the primary.”

PDP’s angst
WHILE the governing party stews in its juice, the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is yet to fix a date for its primary for the election, due to what insiders called division within its ranks.
 
The state chairman, Ade Doherty, was accused of operating at par with the former Deputy National Chairman, Chief Olabode George for the election.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .