 Osinbajo. Photo: TWITTER/POWERMINNIGERIA  Amid these, calls for secession and self-determination persist in some sections of the country, posing challenges to Nigeria’s democratic rule and unity. And having made a minimal success of dousing the tension across the nation, it naturally ought to be a herculean task for anyone in government to speak or appeal to the citizen on insecurity. Yet, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has remained optimistic about the country emerging from its current challenges ‘a greater and more united Nigeria,’ adding that, ‘God’s promise of greatness for the country will certainly come to fruition.’ Osinbajo has not just been speaking out with firm, but assuring messages of hope and assurance of government’s unrelenting efforts to tackle the security challenges, he has also held Security Council meetings with Service Chiefs and chaired a National Economic Council meeting with all governors in attendance where he urged them to immediately commence widespread dialogue and consultations to ensure resolution of the crisis in their domains.
 
The Vice President has repeatedly called for the implementation of state and community policing across the country if Nigeria is to achieve effective policing. He remains resolute about the nation getting over the myriad of challenges confronting it and optimistic it will rise above its trials and come out stronger.  Osinbajo’s approaches and interventions in national issues have interestingly been drawing plaudits, especially from youths on social media.
 
A Twitter user, identified as @ekpesfrancis retweeting what President George Weah of Liberia said of Osinbajo said: “You kept your country together in peace, while President Muhammadu Buhari was away. That is a good model for other Vice Presidents to follow.”  PhilipsJames15, said: “Prof. Yemi Osinbajo is the best VP ever. And his ideas have had great impacts such as the ESP that helped us out of recession.”
 
@KObambon: “Vice President #YemiOsinbajo is the only force sustaining Nigeria’s unity. Underrating him is like trying to break the last straw of Nigeria’s nationhood.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .