The Africa Women Innovation and Entrepreneurship Forum (AWIEF) (www.AWIEForum.org) is hosting the fourth cohort of its flagship AWIEF Growth Accelerator, sponsored by Nedbank.  Access to finance is the most cited challenge to the growth of women-owned businesses in Africa. Bankability and investment readiness are major impediments to attracting business finance. The AWIEF Growth Accelerator is designed to support the unique needs of early-stage and high growth-oriented women-led ventures with business modelling, growth strategy training, corporate advisory, mentorship, networks, and access to strategic partnerships. The accelerator provides capital-raising support for growth, scale and sustainability. It builds women’s entrepreneurial leadership capacity, connects them with appropriate sources of capital and helps them scale. Since 2017, more than 100 early-growth-stage women founders have gone through the accelerator programme. For the 2021 cohort, 20 female entrepreneurs will be selected from sectors including: technology, agribusiness, financial services, manufacturing, health, education, tourism & hospitality, creative industries, and renewable energy. Call for applications Applications are invited from dynamic and innovative female entrepreneurs for the AWIEF Growth Accelerator 2021 cohort. Why join the programme? After six months of hard work and being challenged, as part of the AWIEF Growth Accelerator cohort, you will be ready to tell your story and showcase your business to the world. The programme offers: Eligibility Businesses must be: Timeline Applications open: 10 May 2021
Applications close: 14 June 2021
Recruitment: 15 – 30 June 2021
Accelerator starts: 12th July 2021
Culminating event: Pitch n GrowÔ during AWIEF2021 Conference, 2nd and 3rd December 2021 What past AWIEF Growth Accelerator participants say: “The AWIEF Growth Accelerator was an incredibly inspiring, safe and supportive environment, and was particularly useful during our sudden, rapid growth phase.” “My business is growing and it’s thanks to AWIEF. Thank you for the tools, drive, and confidence to accelerate my company to new heights.” Watch the video showcasing a past AWIEF Growth Accelerator participant: https://bit.ly/3xYdWjk To submit application for AWIEF Growth Accelerator 2021 cohort, please follow this link: http://bit.ly/AWIEFGrowthAccelerator21 Application deadline is Monday, 14 May 2021 at 23:59 CAT.  Applications will only be accepted through the link above. For more information email: info@awieforum.org Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Women Innovation and Entrepreneurship Forum (AWIEF). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .