  Gunmen have killed a traditional ruler, his wife and in-law in Kaduna State. Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) reported the Saturday night incident to the state government. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, stated yesterday that the assailants stormed the home of Sgt. Christopher Madaki (rtd.), ascribe to a ward head at Golkofa, Jema’a Local Council, and shot him, as well as his wife and his son’s wife, identified as Mary. According to Aruwan, the three victims were later confirmed dead, while the monarch’s son, Clement, survived but with injuries inflicted on him by the assailants. The statement added that the breakdown of law and order was averted in Kachia town, headquarters of Kachia Local Council following the killing of Hamidu Nura by Abba Muhammad. The origin of the squabble, which led Muhammad to stab Nura to death, is being investigated by security agencies. “Some irate citizens then captured Muhammad and killed him,” he said. In another development, troops of OPSH received a report of missing Patrick Kambai, in Mabuhu village, Zangon Kataf Local Council. Said Aruwan: “Security agencies have equally arrested notorious bandits across the state, and citizens will be briefed as soon as operatives conclude preliminary investigations.” PROVOKED by the incessant killing of locals by bandits, OPWS has begun a seven-day clearing operation of bandits’ hide-outs in Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba states. The Guardian gathered from a military source that the operation became necessary to bring relief to communities in the three states. Armed men suspected to be herders had ambushed some soldiers on duty behind NASME Barracks in Makurdi, Benue State, recently. This triggered the military operation. The source said the operation would cover some islands behind NASME Barracks in Makurdi and Gbajimba in Guma Local Council, where bandits from Nasarawa reportedly have their hideouts, from where they launch attacks on residents. THE army has confirmed the arrest of 13 suspected Boko Haram terrorists in Kano State. Director of Army Public Relations, Brig-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, revealed yesterday that the suspects were apprehended during a special operation in the state. Yerima disclosed that the troops of 3 Brigade, Kano, carried out the successful operation at Filin Lazio in Hotoro axis of Kano on Saturday. “The operation is predicated on the need to apprehend criminals who may want to hibernate in any part of Kano. The general public, especially residents of Filin Lazio Hotoro, are enjoined to go about their lawful businesses, as security forces are on top of the situation,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .