 Osaka. Photo/TWITTER/NAOMIOSAKA  Osaka has never won a tour-level event on the red dirt while at the French Open, which starts on May 30, she is yet to make it past the third round. The Japanese four-time Grand Slam champion was dumped out of the Madrid Open in the second round last week, having taken almost a month off following her quarter-final exit in Miami. “I’m not sure if I should be telling you this, but I’m just not that comfortable on it (clay) still, and I’m not sure if it’s because I need to play longer on it or if I just haven’t grown up on it,” Osaka told a press conference in Rome on Sunday. Osaka has played just two matches on clay since the 2019 French Open having skipped last year’s Grand Slam because of injury. “Mentally it’s a bit harder because you have to structure the points differently,” she continued. “There are bad bounces and stuff. I get quite frustrated. So, yeah, mentally I think it’s a bit more taxing. “But I think as soon as I get that sort of block out of my mind, then I’ll be more open to the mistakes. “Right now, I’m taking everything as a learning process, and I’m trying not to be so hard on myself.” Osaka is in the same half of the draw as four-time Rome winner Serena Williams, who hasn’t played since losing to Osaka in the Australian Open semi-final and defending champion Simona Halep of Romania. Before then she opens in the second round against either Russia’s 37th-ranked Daria Kasatkina or American Jessica Pegula, the world number 33. “Honestly, I feel like that’s the reason why I’m here for match prep,” said Osaka, whose best showing at the tournament was a quarter-final run in 2019. And she welcomed the extra week of warm-up before Roland Garros, even if it means less time at home before the Tokyo Olympics. “In the beginning, I was a bit sad because it means more time away from home. “But at the same time, I feel like I need the extra time on clay, especially with my past results. Hopefully, I do better here. “But I’m not really mad at, I guess, grinding on clay and practising here for a couple more weeks.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .