Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (middle) with Special Envoy/Minister of Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation and Gambians Abroad, Dr. Mamadou Tangara (second right); Gambia’s High Commissioner to Nigeria, Mohamadou Njie  (second right); Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Gabriel Aduda and Ousman John of the Gambian Embassy, Abuja, during a courtesy to the Presidential Villa, Abuja…yesterday. PHOTO PHILIP OJISUA President Muhammadu Buhari has called on European countries and global financial institutions to consider reducing the devastating effect of COVID-19 pandemic on African economies. He observed that this could come by restructuring debt portfolios, as well as opting for complete reliefs and vaccines to the continent. The President, who spoke at the Financing Africa Summit in France with the theme: “External Financing and Debt Treatment”, submitted that the fall in commodity prices further slowed growth in some nations and strained health facilities. “It is in this vein that we solicit the support of the French government with its influence in the European Union to lend its voice to the efforts being made to mobilise additional resources for developing economies, most especially Africa, to strengthen the quantum of investments to our economies. This financial support should also be extended to the private sector,” he appealed. This is even as Vice President Yemi Osinbajo restated that the most populous nation would keep supporting the aspirations and activities of government and people of The Gambia, especially in ways that promote African brotherhood. He made the promise when he received, at the Presidential Villa, the Special Envoy of President Adama Barrow of The Gambia, Mamadou Tangara, who is also the country’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation and Gambians Abroad. The diplomat was at the State House to personally deliver a message from his leader to President Muhammadu Buhari. His words: “We strongly remain in support of all of the activities of the government and people of The Gambia and stand with you in all ways. “The Nigerian government remains committed to its relationship with The Gambia. It is a long-standing relationship of brothers of so many years and we consider it an important relationship not just within the ECOWAS sub-region but also we consider that as African brothers, we owe a responsibility to ourselves and to the world, to work together for the best purposes and for the best objectives that we have set for ourselves as a people.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .