 Okorocha  Okorocha identified injustice and poverty as the main factors responsible for the current level of insecurity in Nigeria. The All Progressives Congress (APC) Senator said if the government hopes to lower the level of anger in the land, it must begin to tackle every sense of injustice and do all that is possible to make the people happy. Okorocha made this statement when he joined the Ona of Abaji and hundreds of other Muslim faithful especially the needy and less privileged in the breaking of their Ramadan fast on Monday in Abuja. The former Imo State governor said over 75% of Nigerian citizens are angry at the turn of events in the country, adding that nothing useful can come out of a country with so much bitterness and anger. “You can’t solve a problem unless you know the causative. The cause of our Nigerian problem lies in injustice and poverty and the quicker the government moves to address the issue of injustice, the better it is for our nation to reduce the level of anger on the nation,” Okorocha said. “Yes, things are not okay with our nation. Yes, we have big challenges but we must never give up on this nation called Nigeria and I believe a new Nigeria will soon be born.” He said what the country needs to find is a new approach to the situation that will replace anger with love. “If abuses and anger could have helped this nation; I’m sure by now we would have solved this problem,” Okorocha said. “So we must change our style as a nation, imbibe the spirit of brotherhood, prayers and love.” Okorocha advised the government to apply more dialogue than the use of deadly weapons against insurgents and bandits in the country. “I appeal that the Nigerian government must change our style. It appears the old style of force and use of modern equipment to fight our insurgents have not helped us. It is increasing rather in geometric proportion despite the efforts of government,” Okorocha said. He called for the establishment of a National Security Council for engagements at the grassroots.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .