Australians Plan To Boycott Snickers Chocolate After Learning It Is Made In China A TikTok video revealing that Snickers is made in China is turning Australians off the chocolate bar who say they will be boycotting the brand for good. The video was uploaded to the social media site by Jeremy Toh after he made the discovery while shopping at a Woolworths on Sunday. Footage shows a variety of chocolate bars stacked on the shelves at the supermarket before the camera pans up to a box of Snickers. ‘Did you know your Snickers are no longer made in Australia?’ a voiceover says. The man grabs a chocolate bar before turning it over and aiming the camera at the packaging where it is revealed the bar is made in China. A spokesperson from Mars Wrigley, which manufactures the bar, said the company had to temporarily source the product from China while their facility at Ballarat, in regional Victoria, underwent a multi-million dollar upgrade. They also said the Australian facility will begin to produce the bars later in the year and the locally-made product will hit supermarket shelves by next year. The TikTok video has already sparked outrage, with many Australians declaring they will no longer be buying the chocolate bar. ‘No more Snickers for me now,’ one person said. Another person commented: ‘Never buying one of those again’. Snickers is produced by the country’s second-largest confectionery manufacturer Mars. The confectionary giant, which also has brands including Maltesers, Twix, and M&Ms, imports a number of their products from China, Egypt, and as far away as the Netherlands. A spokesperson for the company last year said no local jobs had been lost as the production of Snickers was temporarily moved to a facility in Jiaxing, near Shanghai. The spokesperson said the company continued to support Australian-made products and workers. Mars Wrigley is proud of the role we play in creating regional jobs and contributing to local economies, and have a strong track record in upskilling, training and retaining our Associates (employees). We apply consistent quality standards at all our global manufacturing facilities to make sure we produce high quality products with world-class food safety and in full compliance with regulatory requirements.