Investing in African Mining Indaba (Mining Indaba) (www.MiningIndaba.com), organised by Hyve Group Plc announced the newly expanded Advisory Board last week. The strategic committee includes distinguished finance, technology, sustainability, mining operations, policy, and governance leaders whose focus will be to shape and guide the priorities of the conference.  “Designed to reflect the true voice of the industry in shaping the purpose and agenda, this is an important milestone for Mining Indaba,” said Tom Quinn, Head of Content, Mining Indaba. “We carefully curated this Board to include industry experts whose collective experience ensures the conference has the guidance it needs to navigate its way in the mining industry”. With combined years of expertise spanning the sector, the Advisory Board will play a valuable role in guiding strategic decisions to help strengthen Mining Indaba’s commitment to the sector. Whilst, linking leaders in the Pan-African mining sector to identify the goals and ambitions of governments, investors, and businesses in Africa’s mining sector for Mining Indaba to continue being the event created by the industry for the industry. The Board of CEOs and leaders will bring formidable prestige to Mining Indaba, and is projected to meet on a formal basis, building on the already existing relationships, through yearly meetings in South Africa, alongside weekly conference calls. Joining the newly established board includes: Executive Committee International & South Africa Committee CEO & Leadership Committee Finance & Investment Committee Sustainability Committee Mining Operations & Technology Committee Policy & Governance Committee For more information on the expansion of the Advisory Board, please click here (https://bit.ly/3baDYpB). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Investing in African Mining Indaba. For more information, please contact:
On behalf of Investing in African Mining Indaba
Amy Neville
Email: amy.neville@hyve.group About Investing in African Mining Indaba:
Investing in African Mining Indaba is solely dedicated to the successful capitalisation, development and widening perspective of the African mining industry. Bringing together the world’s industry giants to tomorrow’s barrier-breaking disruptors from across the spectrum. It’s the place where multi-million deals are done, and life-long partnerships are discovered. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .