The management of Conference Hotel, Abeokuta, Ogun State have ruled out sabotage in Tuesday’s gas explosion that killed two persons and left three others critically injured. The hotel, owned by a former governor of the state, Gbenga Daniel, is located at the Water Corporation headquarters junction, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. The explosion was the third in two weeks. The first happened on May 12, 2021 at Oke-Egunya, along NTA Road in Abeokuta South Local Government Area, killing three persons, including an infant. According to an eyewitness account, the incident occurred when a technician was topping up gas from a faulty refrigerator at a residence in the area. Barely 24 hours after this, another explosion rocked where the only victim was amputated while struggling for life at the hospital. It was learnt that a technician and a yet-to-be-identified person were killed in the explosion, which reportedly occurred as a result of a fake gas cylinder used while servicing a revolving door at the hotel. A statement entitled: ‘Another gas cylinder explosion caused CHL accident,’ our story, signed by the hotel facility manager, Tunde Osinubi, said no sabotage was suspected in the explosion. He said: “A routine maintenance of the automatic revolving door at the entrance of hotel reception, which involved the use of oxyacetylene gas to weld the door hinges was being carried out. The oxyacetylene gas cylinder suddenly exploded, killing the technician and one other person yet to be identified”. “Three other persons were injured and were immediately taken to the hospital. They are responding to treatment. So far, no sabotage is suspected. It is, however, suspected that the gas cylinder purchased at the open market may be fake or substandard and unable to withstand gas pressure.” Osinubi said the incidence of gas explosions as a result of substandard cylinders in markets have become worrisome and of great concern as three other incidents have been reported in several locations in Abeokuta within the last two weeks with casualties. “The management of the hotel sympathises with the families and friends of the deceased and wishes to warn the general public of the presence of fake or substandard gas cylinders in the market. This incident is, however, greatly regretted.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .