Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu (left); Governor Godwin Obaseki and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Excreclite Consulting Limited, Eyo Ekpo during a one-day electricity workshop at Government House, in Benin City…yesterday Edo strengthens COVID-19 safety measures to prevent third wave
Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday, met private electricity stakeholders in the state to chart a new path to attract investors to improve electricity generation and supply in the state. Obaseki, who spoke at a one-day electricity workshop at Government House, Benin City, reassured that his administration would continue to provide an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. His words: “This workshop has provided us the opportunity to address of electricity, which is core and very vital to our existence, to see how, working with the ambits of our constitution, we can take on the responsibility of providing electricity to our people. “We will use our advantage, with access to reasonable cost fuel and encourage investments in generation, transmission and distribution within the state. “It is a process and we will provide draft copies of the bill to those who want to make inputs and we are also hopeful of giving the process a fair hearing and robust publicity.” Deputy Governor of the state, Philip Shaibu, reaffirmed that the present administration, was determined to provide stable electricity to Edo people. On his part, Speaker, Edo House of Assembly, Hon. Marcus Onobun, assured of legislative backing to provide legal framework for the electricity sector. BESIDES, the state government has strengthened its response to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, stepping up preventive measures to avoid a third wave of the pandemic. Permanent Secretary, state Ministry of Health, Dr. Osamwonyi Irowa, who represented Governor Godwin Obaseki at a media briefing, said the government was committed to winning containing the pandemic and ensuring the health of Edo people. He said the measures would guide worship centres, schools, markets and shops, transport companies, hotels, lounges, bars and restaurants, social gatherings including wedding anniversaries, funerals and the state’s public service. Obaseki stressed that for religious gatherings, some of the guidelines include reactivation to ensure functional COVID-19 monitoring and enforcement team, hand-washing stations with running water and liquid soap, as well as alcohol-based hand sanitisers at entry and exit points, among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .