Chairman, Ogun State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Yemi Sanusi (left); Speaker, House of Assembly, Kunle Oluomo; Governor Dapo Abiodun and his deputy, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, during the party’s stakeholders meeting on the forthcoming local council elections at the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta… at the weekend. Abiodun not behind my political travails, says impeached deputy speaker
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State has said that it will adopt consensus, direct and indirect primaries to choose its chairmanship and councillorship candidates for the forthcoming local council elections in the state. Publicity Secretary, State Caretaker Committee of the party, Tunde Oladunjoye, disclosed this to newsmen shortly after the party’s stakeholders’ meeting, held at the weekend inside the Presidential Lodge, Abeokuta, the state capital. The party’s spokesperson said that the party, having agreed on consensus names with party leaders for positions in some local councils, would then activate either the direct or indirect primaries for other local councils that could not arrive at an agreement for a consensus candidate. Oladunjoye, who said that the meeting was to ensure that none of the contestants in the elections spend money unnecessarily, also said that the party had been able to come up with solutions to multiple candidates in some local councils. He added that the ruling party would ensure that the election is free and fair, noting that the party’s primaries would not be held in secret like it was done in the past. He, however, disclosed that the process of reaching consensus on the candidates had already started, saying lists of agreed candidates would be made available during the week. In another development, an Ogun State House of Assembly member, Oludare Kadiri, who was removed as the deputy speaker, said he did not believe Governor Dapo Abiodun has a hand in his political travails that culminated in his subsequent impeachment. Dare, who represents Ijebu North State Constituency II, spoke with reporters in Ago-Iwoye, at the weekend, shortly after a town hall meeting with his people to appraise scores of projects executed by him in the last two years. He said his removal did not follow due process, saying that he is not in any cordial relationship with the Speaker, Olakunle Oluomo. He said: “I don’t think I should meet the governor. This is legislative business. Behind any smoke, there is fire. I have not met with the governor because it is a legislative business, but I know who is behind it.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .