Team Qhubeka ASSOS (www.TeamQhubeka.com) will head to Mallorca, Spain, this week for the four UCI 1.1 races that make-up the Challenge Mallorca, starting tomorrow.  Trofeo Calvia, Trofeo Serra de Tamuntana, Trofeo Andratx and the Trofeo Alcudia are the four events taking place on the Spanish Balearic Island of Mallorca this week. Each of the races will include a significant amount of climbing, with only the final Trofeo Alcudia looking likely to be a race that the pure sprinters might feel they have a chance of success. Team Qhubeka ASSOS have sent a squad of 12 riders that will rotate between the 4 events, based on the team's strategy for each of the races. We are excited to have our Eritrean continental team rider, Henok Mulubrhan joining our 11 world tour riders of Carlos Barbero, Dimitri Claeys, Michael Gogl, Reinardt Janse van Rensburg, Dylan Sunderland, Karel Vacek, Emil Vinjebo Sean Bennett, Connor Brown, Nicholas Dlamini and Andreas Stokbro for the Challenge Mallorca. Henok Mulubrhan
I am excited for the opportunity to race with the World Tour Team in Mallorca. I think these races can suit me very well. When I am selected to race, I will give my best for the team and show the level I know I am capable of. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Team Qhubeka ASSOS. Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About Team Qhubeka ASSOS:
Team Qhubeka ASSOS is a purpose-led, high-performance team, fighting to win on the world's biggest stage, to inspire hope and create opportunity. Founded in 2007, Team Qhubeka ASSOS (formerly NTT Pro Cycling) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a UCI WorldTour license, in 2016. We achieved our first major win in 2013 when Gerald Ciolek won Milan-San Remo, one of the five Monuments of cycling. We have competed in six Tour de France’s and notched up 7 stage wins, with Mark Cavendish wearing the coveted Yellow Jersey at the 2016 Tour de France. We are a multicultural, diverse team with bases in South Africa, the Netherlands and Italy. There are 19 nationalities represented across our World Tour and continental feeder team rosters. Our focus on developing African cycling has resulted in more than 55 riders from the African continent be given the opportunity to race on the world stage, since the team's inception. We race to help people to move forward with bicycles through our relationship with Qhubeka Charity. Through our work with Qhubeka, we have contributed to the distribution of over 30 000 bicycles in communities in South Africa. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .