 Director-General of DMO, Patience Oniha  Stakeholders are unsettled over the Federal Government’s plan to borrow a fresh  $6.18 billion (N2.343 trillion) amid rising debt profile, which may push the country’s debt to about N36 trillion, with as much as over N25 trillion of the sum contracted in the last six years of the current administration. Coming at a time when President Muhammadu Buhari is canvassing for debt relief for the country and other nations in Africa while wooing investors into the country, experts, who spoke with The Guardian yesterday insisted that the country’s growing debt profile should create great concern for Nigerians. The Director-General of the Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms. Patience Oniha, was, however, quick to correct the impression that the current loan request before the National Assembly was a fresh one, as according to her, it was already approved and captured in the 2021 Appropriation Act already being implemented.
 
“What we merely did is comply with the DMO Act, which mandates us to seek the approval of the National Assembly for all foreign lending. Of course, the National Assembly had already approved of the borrowing plan as already captured in the 2021 Appropriation Act,” Oniha explained.  A public finance expert and Senior Research Fellow at the National Institute of Legislative Studies (NILS), Dr. Abraham Terfa, said the request for foreign loan for capital projects is not a bad idea if only the capital projects are well-drafted, initiated, monitored and executed with the growth of the economy at the back of the minds of policymakers. In the absence of this, it will just be a repetition of previous cycles created by the government for mismanagement of funds. “The purpose of taking up capital projects is to create multiple streams of revenue for the economy, thereby causing a boost and the possibility of clearing previously owed debts. The implication of this foreign loan is that it will cause more accumulation of debts as well as an increase in debt servicing.”  Dealing with the volatility in the oil and gas sector, Nigeria’s economy, which has suffered two recessions lately, has been on the edge, like subsidies on Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) and electricity, which are estimated at about N2.5 trillion yearly, worsen government’s ability to finance an N13.6 trillion 2021 budget. The budget was originally prepared with an embedded N5.6 trillion deficit. Given that the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) had capped the nation’s oil production to only 1.5 million barrel per day as the global cartel fights to stabilise crude oil, Nigeria had continued to face a foreign exchange crisis, a development, which has pushed $1 to close N500 at the black market. Recall that the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Nigerian Autonomous Foreign Exchange Rate (NAFEX) also called the Investors’ and Exporters’ Forex Window, initiated to harmonise exchange rates had forced the rates to oscillate between N408 and N412 for months, a significant fall from the N379 quoted as the official rate. Activities at the NAFEX window showed the Naira trading as low as N426.67/$ at the weekend before closing at N411.67. At the parallel market, Naira also declined to N484.00. The policy shift also confirmed longtime speculation that the NAFEX is the default official rate.
   
Head, Investment Research at United Capital Plc, Wale Olusi, told The Guardian that the move by the president would further worsen the country’s debt burden and increase the amount the country needs for debt servicing but insisted that it was the best option for the country. Olusi was primarily concerned about the ability of the fund to improve the country’s external reserves and how the development would boost the nation’s economic outlook and reduce the existing foreign exchange crisis while improving the nation’s inflation outlook. “If we are able to get the dollar loan, it will accelerate the growth of the external reserves. It will take the external reserve to $40 billion. This can help the CBN manage the financial market better. It will therefore stabilise the forex market. It will also help to bring down inflation. With a stable FX, the investment will come in. “On the negative side, it will worsen our debt profile. We will need more money to service the debt. We need to therefore do something about our revenue. We need to be able to generate revenue that is more than two times the size of the debt that we are taking.”  Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Bismarck Rewane, said oil prices touched $70 per barrel (pb) for the first time since mid-March on improved oil demand amid the ease of restrictions in the United States, United Kingdom and some European countries. The bullish outlook for oil is further bolstered by the pent-up travel demand that is set to be let loose in the summer with the resumption of international flights. This could push oil further up to $75pb by next month. While this is positive for fiscal and external accretion, the fuel subsidy debacle will present itself again, this time more ferociously. The reserves decline has also been attributed to a drop in diaspora remittances due to the patronage of illegal remittance channels. To reverse the trend, the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, announced the continued implementation of the ‘Naira for Dollar’ scheme, which gives N5 rebate for every $1 sent by Nigerians in diaspora to the country. Previous foreign reserves movement showed that, on April 1, this year, the reserves stood at $34.85 billion, representing $404 million increase compared to $34.41 billion on March 11. Nigeria’s foreign reserve has dipped by $902.1 million since 16th April 2021, when the decline started, while year-to-date, the country’s reserve has dipped by about $1.021 billion. The decline could be attributed to reports of a drop in crude oil exports from the country, which has been exacerbated by the decline in crude oil import by India, the biggest buyer of Nigeria’s crude oil and a nation still heavily hit by the COVID-19 pandemic.  INDICATIONS that the government’s taste for further debt was yet to abate appeared last month when key officials of the Federal Ministry of Finance, including the two ministers shunned a seminar organised by a civil society group, ActionAid, on the disturbing debt profile.
   
At the dialogue with the theme: ‘Rising public debt in Nigeria and challenges of national development,’ experts called for a review of the country’s debt profile with more result-oriented strategies. The Finance, Budget and National Planning Minister, Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, stayed away; same as her Minister of State, Mr. Clem Agba. They didn’t send one of the permanent secretaries in the ministry to represent them. Also conspicuously absent were the debt management focal officials like the DMO DG, Oniha, and the Director-General of Budget Office of the Federation, Mr. Ben Akabueze. Neither were the relevant committees in charge of loans at the National Assembly present to offer insights into what appears to be reckless borrowing with the sum of N25 trillion of the current new N36 trillion debt stock borrowed within the current administration. The Head of Market Development at DMO, Mr. Monday Usiak, apparently conscripted at the dialogue to represent the Minister of Finance in a face-saving effort by Actionaid, could not make any policy statement on the subject matter, apparently because he was not briefed on what to say and only explained the burgeoning public debt as a fallout of Nigerians’ aversion to taxation payment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .