 [FILES] Obiageli Ezekwesili, strategic team leader of the #BringBackOurGirls campaign group, speaks during the closing session of a meeting to review efforts to recover the abducted Chibok girls organised by the Chibok Community Association in collaboration with the #BringBackOurGirls group, in Abuja January 1, 2015. Parents of 200 Nigerian schoolgirls kidnapped by Islamist Boko Haram rebels in April said they were appealing directly to the United Nations for help after losing hope that the Nigerian government would rescue them. Picture taken January 1, 2015.     REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde (NIGERIA – Tags: CIVIL UNREST POLITICS CRIME LAW)  The former Minister of Education, Dr. Obiageli Ezekwesili, has called on Nigerians to ignore a “malicious quote” attributed to her regarding the #BringBackOurGirls campaign. Social media reports had quoted Ezekwesili as saying that the campaign was a “project with Fulani to tarnish” an administration for the benefit of another ahead of the 2015 general elections. In a statement issued in Lagos yesterday by her Spokesperson, Mr. Ozioma Ubabukoh, the two-time minister emphasised that she could never have made such a false statement about the campaign she led for the rescue of the abducted ChibokGirls. She said it was a “desperate attempt” to malign the #BBOG campaign as well as her advocacy for the ChibokGirls. “Ezekwesili never said and can never make such egregiously false statement about the empathetic campaign she led for the rescue of the abducted ChibokGirls. “She has commenced legal actions for libel against media outlets and individuals who publish and disseminate this disgusting fake news that was fabricated by those who wickedly continue to deny the failure of the Federal Government in 2014 to swiftly respond and rescue the ChibokGirls,” the statement read in part. According to the statement, Ezekwesili will also sue any other individual or media outlet that disseminates the “fake news” further, and has also notified social media platforms. “The dubious authors of the fake quote had, in their desperate effort to mislead the public, deviously ascribed a false quote to Ezekwesili. Propagating falsehood, they fictionally quoted Ezekwesili as saying that the global #BBOG campaign for the rescue of 219 abducted Chibok schoolgirls was a ‘project with Fulani to tarnish’ one administration for the benefit of another in the 2015 elections. “The original author and other peddlers of the fake news have already been identified and reported to Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, WhatsApp and other social media platforms, which are taking appropriate actions.” She urged members of the public to ignore the patently fictional and fake news being peddled by those who steadfastly refused to acknowledge the injustice done to the Chibok schoolgirls, even seven years after the tragedy. Her advocacy for victims of terrorist abduction in Nigeria started with ChibokGirls in 2014. Over the last seven years, #BBOG and Ezekwesili have extended and amplified their voices by advocating the release of all subsequent kidnap victims like Leah Sharibu of Dapchi Secondary School. Recently, #BBOG and Ezekwesili have continued to pressure and hold the Federal Government accountable for the serial cases of abduction of pupils between 2020 and 2021, which are reminiscent of the 2014 abduction of ChibokGirls. She used the opportunity to remind President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Government of their constitutional duty to rescue the remaining schoolgirls in captivity and all other victims of abduction. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .