In our 27-year history as a Chamber of Business (www.CanadaAfrica.ca), the latest range of risk insurance instruments from the African Trade Insurance (ATI) Agency is a major leap forward for Canadian institutional investors and African countries – standing to unlock billions in investment capital.  ATI facilitates inward investment in Africa by providing insurance against trade and investment risks. This month the organization joined The Canada-Africa Chamber of Business.  ‘ATI is a game-changer. From discussions with private equity and pension fund representatives, ATI has the potential to ensure both the perceived and real risks on the continent are well-managed; ensuring investment committees can proceed on deals that until recently may have been deemed too risky,’ says Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, Chair of the Board, Chair of the Board at The Canada-Africa Chamber of Business.  The Canada-Africa Chamber of Business invites interested parties to learn more.  Join us on Thursday 20 May 2021 at 10:00 ET/ 16:00 CAT / 17:00 EAT  View the Full Virtual Program (https://bit.ly/3ooyuNB)  RSVP (https://bit.ly/3eSzlmu)  ATI has a good market position in Africa, based on the scale of its underwriting penetration and benefits from significant local expertise and understanding in a number of African countries. It currently insures trade and investments worth over USD6 billion or an average of 1-2% of GDP annually in its African member countries. ATI’s partners and clients include African Governments, lenders, traders (both domestic & international) and project developers.   'It has become increasingly clear that to achieve “the Africa we want” the role of private sector must become central in mobilizing the needed resources. Alliances like this one present excellent opportunities to address the development challenges facing our region.' – Manuel Moses, Chief Executive Officer, ATI  ‘During my career on Bay Street, it was clear solutions were needed to unlock the billions of investable capital in Canada. ATI has since developed a suite of products that in my view has dramatically changed the landscape in recent years’  – Deepak Dave, Chief Risk Officer, ATI  ATI’s African Member states contribute, along with international governments, multilaterals and private sector to the pool of capital underwriting investments, without holding any influence over ATI operations. The Nairobi-based multilateral has maintained an ‘A/Stable’ rating for Financial Strength and Counterparty Credit by Standard & Poor’s, and in 2019, ATI obtained an A3/Stable rating from Moody’s. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of The Canada-Africa Chamber of Business. For More Information:
Garreth Bloor
President
The Canada-Africa Chamber of Business
Tel: +1.647.667.1223
Email: garreth@canadaafrica.ca
Manulife Building RTO
55 Bloor Street West
PO Box 19553
Toronto
Ontario M4W 3T9 About The African Trade Insurance Agency:
ATI was founded in 2001 by African States to cover the trade and investment risks of companies doing business in Africa. ATI predominantly provides Political Risk, Credit Insurance and, Surety Insurance. In 2020, ATI closed the year with a gross exposure of US$6.3 billion and a net profit of US$39.4 million, owing to a strong demand for ATI’s insurance solutions from the international financial sector and from African governments. Since inception, ATI has supported US$66 billion worth of investments and trade into Africa. 
www.ATI-aca.org About The Canada-Africa Chamber of Business:
The Chamber is committed to accelerating trade, business and investment between Canada and African markets, through world-class networking and information sharing opportunities. Founded in 1994, the Chamber is based in Toronto and Ottawa, with members located throughout Canada and African markets. The Chamber is an independent, not-for-profit organization with strong working links with both Canadian and African businesses and governments.
www.CanadaAfrica.ca To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .