Reactions Trail Buhari’s Directive To NCC To Collect Nigerians’ Phone ID Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the Nigerian Communications Commission to collect the phone International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) of citizens within three months. According to the directives, DMS will also provide access to all operators to cross-check the IMEIs and their status before allowing a device to become active on their network. Furthermore, registered mobile phone technicians will also be provided with an interface to check IMEIs and ensure it has not been reported as stolen or illegal before they render their technical services. “To achieve this, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) would be responsible for the implementation and management of the DMS to achieve the policy objectives.” This has generated lots of reactions from people and below are some: Isa Pantami have access to our NIN, now NCC is mandating Nigerians to submit IMEI of phones from July 2021. I hope FG won’t be mad if people don’t comply with this IMEI directives, because when people asked for the resignation of Isa Pantami for his extremism, FG didn’t comply. — UNCLE AJ (@UNCLE_AJALA) May 21, 2021  I will trek through the evil wilderness of Niger Republic, the dry scorching and dangerous deserts of Libya and serve as a slave for 2 years in Libya before crossing over to Europe to do prostitution than to give Isa Pandemic my IMEI number — $Hydra (@TheBriDen) May 21, 2021  NCC is mandating Nigerians to submit the IMEI of their phones to be tracked from July 2021. Must be what…. pic.twitter.com/Wvcj9RS5B7 — Samuel Otigba (@SamuelOtigba) May 21, 2021  From NIN to IMEI, what else will this government tell us to do?? — Elvis Tunde ➐ (@Tunnykvng) May 21, 2021  I haven’t linked my NIN and I’m definitely not going to submit my IMEI to NCC and Isa Pantami. Patapata, I will relocate to Togo. — Elvis Tunde ➐ (@Tunnykvng) May 21, 2021  FG wants my IMEI number after getting my BVN and NIN??? George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four Novel no do pass this o. — Wolf of Lagos  (@SheunAdeola) May 21, 2021 