 George Moghalu  “Every negative thing you say about your colleague today will be used against APC and its candidate at the appropriate time. I appeal to all of us that there’s nothing to quarrel about. It’s God that gives power. Fortunes can be delayed, but destiny can’t be changed.”
 
He noted that if APC must win the election, “we must go to this contest with our best first eleven. People have lost confidence in the governance of the state. So, our primary assignment is to restore that confidence. Don’t make your choice based on sentiments, but on verifiable and credible facts.
 
“The Anambra State governorship,” he stated, “would be a tough contest. I urge all APC members to brace up to the challenges of working for the party’s victory. APC would ensure that a person with impeccable pedigree was chosen as candidate of the party in the election.”
   
State APC caretaker Chairman, Basil Ejidike, who received Moghalu and his delegation alongside members of the state working committee, described Moghalu as a consistent and loyal party man, stressing that he has all the requisite qualities to become the next governor of Anambra State.  PDP Delegates Stage Praise Conference
FOR the first time in a long while, over 2000 statutory PDP delegates from the 326 wards in the state, gathered under one roof and one leadership to reinforce its cohesion with songs and dance of praise.
 
Speaking at the occasion, a frontline aspirant, Dr. Obiora Okonkwo, said Anambra PDP has become bigger, stronger, better, and rearing to take over the Government House, Awka.
 
The statutory delegates were joined by the PDP executive in the 21 Local Government Areas of the state at the event tagged ‘Dr. Obiora Okonkwo Praise Worship Conference with PDP Statutory Delegates,” held at the expansive Oma Event Center, Awka,
 
While commending the new sense of unity, Okonkwo praised the state chairman, Hon. Ndubuisi Nwobu, for the remarkable turnaround. The aspirant, who was accompanied by his wife, Gina, danced to gospel tunes during the praise worship.
 
He reassured the delegates that he would lead the party to a massive victory, if he emerges the candidate, adding that he has been consulting and networking among party members to deliver an exclusive administration.
 
Okonkwo, while assuring never to disappoint the people and the party, likened himself to a good shepherd, saying,  “I will never disappoint you. I will never betray you. I have always stood and fought for you and PDP and I am not stopping. Like the good shepherd, I will fight and protect your interest and the interest of the PDP.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .