 Makinde. Photo: TWITTER/SEYIAMANKINDE  Makinde, who stated this at a Ramadan lecture organised by Abdullah AbdulRasaq Ademola, representing Ibadan South-East I State Constituency at Elekuro Ibadan, added that his government would not deviate from its promise of promoting the tenets of democracy and actualisation of people-centred programmes. The governor, who was represented by the Chairman, Pacesetter Transport Company, Dare Adeleke, urged the people of the state to use the month of Ramadan to pray for the success of the administration and an end to insecurity in the country. He said: “God has blessed us with the month of Ramadan to ask for those things that are crucial to our existence. The first should be the progress of the state, while we also pray for the country to overcome insecurity. “It is my belief that God Almighty will not desert us and our prayers shall be heard. Let us keep the tempo of our prayers up and it shall be well in Allah’s name. “The ranting of the opposition elements in the state should not be seen as anything serious that can distract us. We are resolute to deliver on campaign promises and those are the major pacts we made with the people. We will not let them down, we will not allow the noise of distractors get to us.” The Deputy Speaker, Muhammad Fadeyi, while addressing the gathering, assured that the Ninth Assembly would continue to give necessary legislative support to all the programmes and policies of Governor Makinde, which he said, are geared towards enhancing the living standard of the people of the state. Fadeyi described AbdulRasaq as a great grassroots mobiliser, who has continued to keep in touch with the people of his constituency. Also, the state Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatunbosun, condemned, in strong terms, those politicising the issue of security in the state, adding that the government at the centre has failed in the area of protecting the live and property of the citizenry. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .