Basketball players, fans and enthusiasts in Nigeria can now enjoy top African basketball games and sporting actions for free on Awatv, Nigeria’s free digital channel (Channel 749). This is coming on the eve of the Basketball Africa League (BAL), which inaugural season holds from May 16 to 30 in Rwanda. Awatv has the right to broadcast all the matches live. Speaking in Lagos on Tuesday, CEO of Telly4 Africa, owners of Awatv, Bayo Adebiyi, said, “The Basketball Africa League (BAL) has announced that the league’s inaugural season will tip off Sunday, May 16 at the Kigali Arena in Kigali, Rwanda, with 12 teams from across Africa competing in the new professional league and we are thrilled that Awatv would air all the live games exclusively for our viewers. “The 12 club teams competing are from 12 African countries, including Algeria, Nigeria, Angola, Cameroun, Egypt, Madagascar, Mali, Morocco, Mozambique, Rwanda, Senegal and Tunisia. The BAL will kick off with Rivers Hoopers of Nigeria versus Patriots of Rwanda.” According to Adebiyi: “Viewers in Nigeria will be able to watch all the matches live on Awatv, which is on National Digital Free View Platform showing in Lagos, Plateau, Abuja, Kaduna, Enugu, Kwara and Osun State. The pre-event countdown show, titled Road to BAL, took off on May 9, 2021, running from May 9 to 15, by 6:30 to 7.00 p.m. and during the pre-event, a 10-minute segment would allow viewers to call in, predict and win fabulous prizes. “The live tournament, which will take off on May 16, will be anchored and co-hosted by Deji Omotoyinbo, who has presented sports shows on Radio and TV for a wide range of corporate sponsors for over 25 years; Bode Oguntuyi, who has also covered many NBA Finals and All-Star Games, as an accredited reporter and was a basketball columnist for ESPN; Oluwafemi Adefeso, sports on-air personality (OAP), social entrepreneur (B.A.L.L Africa) and the convener of the African Basketball Conversation, and Queen Joseph, the only female media officer in the Nigeria Men’s Basketball League with Rivers Hoopers Basketball Club. Viewers are guaranteed excitement, fun and a lot of dunking throughout the competition on Awatv free digital view platform channel 749.” He described Awatv as a national free view entertainment channel targeted at contemporary women, young adults and kids. It broadcasts nationwide on the National Digital terrestrial platform. The BAL, a partnership between the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) and the National Basketball Association (NBA), builds on the foundation of club competitions FIBA Regional Office Africa has organised on the continent and marks the NBA’s first collaboration to operate a league outside of North America.  The first BAL finals will hold on May 30. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .