The Adamawa Police Command has arrested 48 Kidnappers and four armed robbers. 
 
The commissioner of police, Aliyu Alhaji, said the arrests were carried out by anti-kidnapping unit, anti-shilla squad and Special Investigation Bureau (SIB) of the command. Alhaji spoke while parading the suspects at the police headquarters in Yola, explaining that a total of 20 prohibited fire arms, 1000 rounds of live ammunitions, were recovered from the gang.
 
Other materials recovered from the suspects included a pump action gun, five live cartridges, large quantity of hard drugs bags of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp and  N3 million.  He stressed that the command was still investigating the circumstances for necessary actions and called on more kidnappers to repent,” he said. Alhaji urged the people of the state to continue to support the command by providing useful information that can help his men to take proactive measures to end crimes in the state.
 
Meanwhile, a mobile police Officer on special deployment to Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Mr. Idi Aminu has lost his life in an accidental hand grenade explosion.
  
The incident, which occurred opposite Amizi Amangbala Primary School in Afikpo North threw the area into panic as passers scampered to safety.
 
The Police Public Relations Officer in Ebonyi state, Mrs Loveth Oda, who confirmed the development explained that the MOPOL, who was an inspector mistakenly hit the lead of his grenade which was hanging on his waist with his elbow resulting in the deadly explosion.
 
She noted that the police officer was an operative of MOPOL 32 and not a suicide bomber as being circulated on the social media.
 
She also cleared the air on alleged accidental discharge by a police officer at Government House Abakaliki pointing out that though a bullet accidentally fired from an AK 47 rifle when police officers posted to the gate were cleaning their firearms, it never hurt or killed any of them.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .