United Bank for Africa (UBA) …10 Customers get N1m each in savings promo
As part of its efforts to boost savings culture in Nigeria, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has rewarded 10 loyal customers to the tune of N1 million each in its just concluded ‘UBA savings Promo. The promo is a new initiative of the bank which embraces all savings customers of the bank from the six geographical zones in Nigeria with the criteria of simply having saved a minimum of N10,000 in three months. The electronic raffle draw, which was held virtually at the weekend, was witnessed by the relevant regulatory bodies including the National Lottery Regulatory Commission and Consumer Protection Council to ensure transparency and accountability. The winners who emerged were Emeka Onyemauchi, Ezeigbokwe Oluebube Purity, Omoniyi Jaiyeola, Olawale Omotayo Idowu, Zaharadeen Umar, Aliyu Bakari, Samuel Esua, Joseph Eze, Deborah Folusho Adebayo and Lucy Chinyere Adim The Head Personal Banking and Product Development, Osita Ede said this promo is slated to increase the bracket of winners in the bank’s savings customer base, promote saving culture and rewards their customers. Ede said: “We are doing this because it is actually a way of touching lives and show appreciation to our loyal customers and also to encourage savings because we know that deep down when you look at the funds that are out of the financial institutions you still have a significant amount that is not in the system. So, it is also a way of driving financial inclusion, encourage savings and then rewarding and showing appreciation to our customers.” “What it takes to qualify for this draw is not much the criteria is so low that everyone can participate and emerge a winner. UBA has always had the wise savers promo, but this year, we have now launched something different. This is the first quarterly draw this year and ten customers won N1 million each. “Bumper savings account is our flagship savings product but there are different reasons why people save. So, what we did was to have a draw that speaks specifically to bumper account. And every quarter, the months we don’t have the bumper draw, we now expand it to all savings account in the bank.” “This Promo is something we at UBA are proud of because it is an opportunity for us to change some lives. And for those you who do not win today, there would be quarterly draws every quarter,” he added. Savings account holders eligible for this draw include Target, Bumper, Next Gen, Savings, Teens & Kiddies and this draw noted 862,000 customers who qualified for the draw.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .