 IPOB  The Guardian gathered that the security operatives invaded the community, yesterday, in search of a notorious leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Thaddeus Ekechukwu, popularly known as ‘Moputu’. It was also gathered that the target, husband to a police officer and father of five grown-up children, who is in his late 50s, was seen around the community even till the night before the incident. An indigene of the community, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “The security personnel were fully armed. They drove in over seven security vehicles, including an armoured vehicle. They wore jackets with police boldly written on their back. Also, their vehicles were inscribed with ‘FBI-R’” The source further said that the security team arrived in the community around 1:00 a.m. and laid ambush around Moputu’s house in attempt to apprehend him. “But after the long waiting and searching, they couldn’t see him. Some said he disappeared immediately he sensed danger.
“Possibly in anger around 8:00 a.m., the policemen set the family house on fire in the presence of his brothers and other family members. “The fire also destroyed many property, including a big generator, fridge, brand new motorcycle, among many others. “Unfortunately, most of these property, including the house, do no belong to Moputu. They belong to his elder brother, who only accommodates him and his family in it.” “After that, they continually shot in the air and left the community through Amaraku axis. There is no casualty because I think they are only after Moputu. “The incident has put the people in serious fear because they don’t know if the security operatives will return and what may be their next line of action.” MEANWHILE, when contacted, the state Police Command Spokesperson, Orlando Ikeokwu, said he was yet to know about the incident.  He promised to get back but as at the time of filing in this report, he was yet to react. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .