Huawei (www.Huawei.com) is excited to announce that it was named a 2021 Gartner Peer Insights Customers' Choice for Wired and Wireless LAN Access Infrastructure (https://gtnr.it/3fzF4xO). As the only non-North American vendor named, Huawei received a high rating of 4.8/5 stars based on 191 customer reviews (as of March 2021) [1] on the Gartner Peer Insights platform.  Huawei is proud to garner many customer reviews and high ratings due to its highly competitive campus network offerings and excellent performance worldwide. Huawei was named a Customers' Choice in four of the five customer segments (excluding North America) based on the demographics of reviewers – Midsize Enterprise (50M – 1B USD), Services, Asia/Pacific, and Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA). As of March 31, 2021, customers across a wide variety of sectors (such as finance, government, carrier, and manufacturing) have reviewed Huawei's CloudCampus Solution and full series of products [e.g., CloudEngine S series switches, AirEngine Wi-Fi 6 APs, iMaster NCE-CampusInsight (https://gtnr.it/3g0Y1Z8), and iMaster NCE-Campus (https://gtnr.it/2SK0CPv)] on Gartner Peer Insights. They appraised the product functionality, deployment, O&M, and service support of Huawei's campus network offerings. We believe their impressive feedback showed global recognition of Huawei from the industry influence, deployment scales, and mature commercial use perspectives. Gartner Peer Insights is an online platform of ratings and reviews of IT software and services that are written and read by IT professionals and technology decision-makers. The goal is to help IT leaders make more insightful purchase decisions and help technology providers improve their products by receiving objective, unbiased feedback from their customers. Gartner Peer Insights includes more than 350,000 verified reviews in more than 355 markets. “It is our sole aim to provide best-in-class solutions and products that meet customer requirements and receive customer recognition. As such, we're thrilled to be named a 2021 Gartner Peer Insights Customers' Choice for Wired and Wireless LAN Access Infrastructure,” commented Li Xing, President of Huawei Campus Network Domain. “In the future, we will remain committed to customer centricity and continued innovation, and persist in helping customers embrace a fully wireless, intelligent cloud campus network. We are also highly grateful for the feedback we receive through Gartner Peer Insights.” The following excerpts from customers contributed to Huawei's distinction: Long-lasting customer trust stems from Huawei's continued innovation and leadership in the campus network domain. For more information, visit Huawei CloudCampus Solution website (https://bit.ly/2SIITI2). Source:
[1] Gartner Peer Insights ‘Voice of the Customer’: Wired and Wireless LAN Access Infrastructure, By Peer Contributors, 12 May 2021 Disclaimer: Gartner Peer Insights Customers' Choice/Peer Insights constitute the subjective opinions of individual end-user reviews, ratings, and data applied against a documented methodology; they neither represent the views of, nor constitute an endorsement by, Gartner or its affiliates. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Huawei Enterprise. About Huawei:
Huawei is a leading global provider of information and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure and smart devices. With integrated solutions across four key domains – telecom networks, IT, smart devices, and cloud services – we are committed to bringing digital to every person, home and organization for a fully connected, intelligent world. Huawei's end-to-end portfolio of products, solutions and services are both competitive and secure. Through open collaboration with ecosystem partners, we create lasting value for our customers, working to empower people, enrich home life, and inspire innovation in organizations of all shapes and sizes. At Huawei, innovation focuses on customer needs. We invest heavily in basic research, concentrating on technological breakthroughs that drive the world forward. We have more than 194,000 employees, and we operate in more than 170 countries and regions. Founded in 1987, Huawei is a private company wholly owned by its employees. For more information, please visit Huawei online at www.Huawei.com or follow us on: http://www.linkedin.com/company/Huawei, http://www.twitter.com/Huawei, http://www.facebook.com/Huawei, http://www.youtube.com/Huawei. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .