 Bashir Salihi Magashi  The minister, who gave the charge yesterday at the 2021 Nigerian Air Force Day Celebration Seminar, marking the 57th anniversary of the establishment of the NAF, maintained that the charge became imperative due to the adverse impact of insecurity on national development. Represented by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Lucky Irabor, the minister pledged Federal Government’s determination to provide administrative and support services timely to enable the military build and maintain modern and professional forces for the defence of the country. Magashi commended the armed forces for their commitment to the defence of the nation’s constitution and curtailing internal uprising. His words: “I charge all defence stakeholders in the country to be more dedicated and vigilant, taking due cognisance of the adverse impact of security challenges on national development and economic growth.” Earlier, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, reassured the nation of NAF’s commitment and determination to ensure a united and prosperous nation, working in concert with sister services and other security agencies. He added: “NAF under my leadership would continue to bolster the morale of personnel by constantly improving their welfare.” MEANWHILE, the Nigerian Navy (NN) has intercepted about 128,612 barrels of crude oil valued at N2,598,219,624 and 15,317,150 litres of Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) valued at over N3 million between January and May this year. Also seized from oil thieves within the time under review was 5,150 litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) valued at N1 million and 3,193,251 litres of Dual Purpose Kerosene (DPK) valued at N606,717,690 within the time under review. At a press briefing to mark the 64th anniversary of the NN at the Naval Headquarters (NHQ), Abuja, the Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, attributed the success of the fight against economic saboteurs to the increased effort of the NN Operation Bases, especially through Operation River Sweep. According to him, another key factor that contributed to the clampdown was the NHQ sensitisation and directives to all bases on zero tolerance to Crude Oil Theft (COT) and illegal bunkering activities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .