 NDLEA  He gave the warning in Abuja, yesterday, at a national security summit organised by the House of Representatives.  Director, Media and Advocacy of NDLEA, Femi Babafemi, in a statement, quoted Marwa as saying the present figure of 10.6million Nigerians abusing cannabis is frightening and enough to sound the alarm bell. He said the strong nexus between drug abuse and the security challenges across the country is incontrovertible. “Presently, there is no bigger national issue than that of insecurity. It is one of the big challenges, if not the biggest, threatening our dear country. Insecurity is today a full-blown malady with many manifestations such as insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, murder, robbery, reprisal killing, name it. “Yet there has never been a government that is more committed to ending this spate of insecurity than the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari.” According to Marwa, the President has matched political willpower with resources, but the scope and frequency of the acts of destabilisation and the audacity displayed by the perpetrators call for a second, critical look at the malaise. “The persistence of the problem has forced on us the necessity to start to look at likely extraneous factors that might be sustaining the resistance from the criminal elements and in doing so, try to connect the dots. “The permutations will lead to a list of probable causes, which will not exclude the use and abuse of illicit substances. In the final analysis, drug abuse is indeed one of the factors fueling insecurity. “The relationship between substance abuse and crime is a fact. What is clear is that no sane human being will rise against society to commit the kind of gross atrocities as we are witnessing in recent years, except such an individual has first hardened his heart with mind-altering substances” “The use of drugs for perverted purposes is not a new phenomenon, neither is it something that just started in Nigeria. There are precedents in world history,” the agency’s boss stated. According to Marwa, beyond speculations and armchair theories, there is ample evidence, from report statistics and from empirical data from the field, to conclude that the use of illicit substances is a contributing factor to the worsening security situation in Nigeria. “And if this is so, Nigeria should be the last country to consider a law to legalise marijuana in any shape or form.
“Should we have such a law, we will soon become a nation of junkies and criminals. As such, I caution that our lawmakers should not legalise cannabis because it will amount to taking a step forward and ten steps backward. It will no doubt rob the nation of recent gains in the war against illicit drugs.”
ry.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .